A young boy carries a visibly-wounded, unconscious girl through a snowy path on his back. This girl is revealed to be his younger sister, Nezuko. He treks frantically through the snow and begs her to stay alive, vowing that her big brother would save her.
Tanjiro Kamado prepares to depart his home.
As New Year is about to arrive, Tanjiro Kamado prepares to leave his home, selling charcoal to put food on his family's table for the holiday. His siblings Hanako and Shigeru overhear him and beg to go as well, but their mother sternly refuses as they would only slow him down. Tanjiro calls out to his brother, Takeo, and asks him to chop the firewood while he's away, much to the latter's disappointment as he hints that he wanted to chop wood with his older brother. Tanjiro bids farewell to his mother and siblings as they remind him to stay safe. As he sets off, he runs into Nezuko, rocking their youngest sibling, Rokuta, to sleep. She mentions their younger siblings' attachment to Tanjiro since their father's death and bids him goodbye.
As he travels, he remarks that they have always made the most of their life, since it could quickly one day shift so suddenly. As Tanjiro arrives in the town, everyone is delighted to see him and immediately call him over to buy some of his charcoal. One of the villagers cries out to Tanjiro and asks him to take a whiff of a broken plate to figure out who the culprit was. The boy's keen sense of smell is able to detect that it was a cat at fault and not the villager who was being held responsible for it.
As the sun begins to set, Tanjiro begins his journey home but before he goes to ascend the mountain, an elder by the name of Saburo stops him on his travel, forbidding to let him from going back to the mountain as the sky turns dark. He tells him not to worry as his nose can quickly smell dangers, but the man insists he take refuge in his house for the night in case of a demon attack. Inside his hut, Tanjiro asks if demons could enter homes. Saburo answers so, informing him it is the job of Demon Slayers to protect them. Saburo, who lost his family to demons years ago, is pitied by Tanjiro, while remembering that his grandmother too had said something about demons to him before her death.
Nezuko begins to stir, revealing she is no longer human.
At dawn, Tanjiro departs from Saburo's residence and makes his way back. Outside his yard, he sees a bloodied Nezuko holding Rokuta lying on the snowy ground. Horrified, he goes to check the house and is shocked to see his home destroyed and everyone inside brutally killed. As Nezuko is the only one with warmth in her body, Tanjiro hurriedly carries her on his back to see a doctor. Questions begin to flood Tanjiro's mind as he wonders if a bear was responsible for the attack. The blizzard makes it difficult for him to breathe and he struggles to make his way to the town. Suddenly, Nezuko rears up, growling and with fangs in her mouth; she pulls back on Tanjiro and causes both of them to fall off a cliff. The thick snow protects Tanjiro from the fall.
He finds Nezuko standing upright and asks if she is okay, only to be suddenly attacked by her. Tanjiro is forced to jam his hatchet into her mouth to prevent getting bit as he realizes to his horror that Nezuko is now a demon. He questions why, since she was born human, despite her now smelling of death and blood. However, he remembers that she was lying over Rokuta and didn't have the blood of her family on her, noting that another scent was inside the house. She grows in size and gains strength, with Tanjiro struggling more to hold her back. He laments that his family has died brutally whilst he was away. Tanjiro starts attempting to appeal to what is left of his sister's humanity, encouraging her to stop and do her best to not give into being a demon. Eventually, she ceases her struggle and starts to cry; upon seeing his sister's tears, Tanjiro cries as well.
A swordsman attacks the demon Nezuko.
Suddenly, a swordsman strikes at Nezuko: Tanjiro rolls himself and Nezuko away to avoid the attack. The katana-wielding man asks why Tanjiro was protecting a demon. Although Tanjiro tells him that the demon is his sister, the man insists on killing her, before lunging forward and grabbing hold of Nezuko, too fast for Tanjiro to see. He states that it is his job as a Demon Slayer to kill them and prepares to behead her. Tanjiro begs for her life and claims she has not killed anyone, wondering why she was turned into a demon in the first place, only for the man to respond that since demon blood has enter her through injuries, she has transformed. He promises to make a cure but the Demon Slayer tells him becoming a demon is irreversible.
Giyu tests Tanjiro's resolve, questioning if he can truly save Nezuko.
Unwilling to let the last of his family die, Tanjiro kneels down and begs for Nezuko to be spared. The man grows angry and rebukes him for his weak resolve, stating that a weak person cannot avenge his family or return his sister into a human again. He demands that Tanjiro fight for something, claiming that demons may know how to change someone back but will not respect whining and crying, adding that he doesn't respect Tanjiro as well. Inside, the swordsman chastises himself for being late but refuses to dwell further. Despite knowing the great pain Tanjiro is experiencing, he begs the boy to keep his anger in his heart, as it will push him to do what he must.
While Tanjiro is left forlorn, the swordsman stabs Nezuko in the chest, causing her great pain. Tanjiro immediately throws a rock at him and charges. The man becomes angry over what was merely an emotionally-charged attack. He knocks Tanjiro unconscious but notices that he was not carrying his hatchet. He looks up into the sky and ducks out of the way of the falling hatchet, barely missing him. Through this carefully-planned assault by the young boy, the swordsman becomes aware of Tanjiro's resolve to protect his sister, willing to sacrifice even his own life in order to save her from him. While the swordsman is distracted, Nezuko breaks free of his hold and rushes to Tanjiro's motionless body. The swordsman curses himself for letting his guard down, expecting Nezuko to devour her brother.
However, she instead defends her unconscious brother, using her own body to shield him. The man recalls many a time that someone too had said the same about their demon-turned relative, only to be eaten since demons will even feed on family members. Seeing her injuries, he notes that she is spending energy to heal and yet refrains from killing Tanjiro. Realizing that these siblings are different, he opts to spare Nezuko, sheathing his katana and knocking her unconscious instead. As he is unconscious, Tanjiro dreams of his mother and siblings surrounding him; she apologizes for leaving him and entrusts Nezuko to his care.
Tanjiro buries his deceased family members.
Tanjiro wakes up with tears in his eyes, seeing Nezuko with a bamboo muzzle in her mouth to prevent her from biting him, laid unconscious but alive beside him. Having waiting for him to awaken, the swordsman appears behind a tree and asks them to look for an elder named Sakonji Urokodaki, who lives at the foot of Mount Sagiri, and to tell him that Giyu Tomioka sent them. Finally, he advises Tanjiro to not bring his sister out in the sun, before disappearing. Tanjiro buries the members of his family beside their house while Nezuko looks on. The Kamado siblings take each others' hands and starts on their journey to look for Sakonji.
Following Giyu's advice to keep Nezuko away from the sun, Tanjiro opts to buy a basket from a nearby farmer to protect her in the day. The farmer offers to give it for free since it is damaged but Tanjiro insists on paying. Again, he refuses money and adds that he can take the straw and bamboo for free. Tanjiro stubbornly wants to give him the money and the farmer annoyedly denies payment. Tanjiro slaps coins into his hand and thanks him, while the farmer yelps in pain. After repairing it, Tanjiro finds Nezuko has dug herself into a dirt tunnel, her scared expression showing her great reluctance to let sunlight touch her.
Unsure if she can fit, or even understand him, Tanjiro slowly asks if she could shrink herself similar to how she previously grew in size. Eventually, Nezuko does as Tanjiro asks and fits inside. With the basket on his back, Tanjiro sets out to Mount Sagiri. He finds a woman and asks for directions. She tells him the mountain is across another but is worried since it is now dark. Tanjiro reassures her that he will be safe.
As night falls, Tanjiro and Nezuko find a small temple hut in the woods and decide to look inside. As they enter, Tanjiro smells blood and worries about the possibility of a traveler being injured, rushing into the building. However, he instead finds a demon feasting upon the three dead residents. The demon shoots the siblings a glance and warns them that this is his feasting grounds. Upon seeing the bloodied bodies, Nezuko starts to salivate and Tanjiro goes into a state of shock at his first encounter with a man-eating demon.
The demon suddenly realizes that Tanjiro is human and rushes out of the temple to kill him. Tanjiro uses his hatchet to slash the demon by the neck, fending him away, but the wound immediately begins to heal. The demon proceeds to outspeed the boy and pins him onto the ground with his agility and strength. Before the demon can kill Tanjiro, Nezuko, who had been fighting the urge to eat the bodies, comes to her brother's aid and kicks his head clean off from his neck while Tanjiro watches, shocked over her unexpected new ability to kill.
The Temple Demon's body attacking Nezuko.
Tanjiro fighting the Temple Demon's head.
However, the demon's body continues to attack Tanjiro despite being beheaded, prompting Nezuko to give the headless body another kick. The severed head yells at Tanjiro, asking why a demon would travel with a human. He runs to grab Nezuko, distracting her and Tanjiro while growing another pair of arms from the detached head. He charges at Tanjiro but the boy proceeds to headbutt and pin him onto a nearby tree with his hatchet handle.
Tanjiro runs off into the forest to look for Nezuko, finding her under attack from the headless body as it continues to kick her dangerously close to a cliff's edge. He tackles the body off the cliff, being narrowly saved by Nezuko and making the headless body fall straight onto the ground below. Although the impact from the fall of his body causes the demon great pain, enough to knock him unconscious, it does not kill him.
The siblings return to the demon's head pinned by the tree and Tanjiro draws out a small knife, intending to end the demon's life. However, despite knowing that it will save the lives of others, he hesitates to kill it. Enough time in his hesitation passes for a person wearing a strange mask to approach him from behind, telling him that the knife that he holds cannot kill the demon.
Sakonji receiving the message from Giyu.
An old man wearing a tengu mask receives a letter from a crow sent by Giyu. Giyu states that a young boy whose family was slaughtered by a demon is on his way to meet him, wanting to become a Demon Slayer. Within the letter, Giyu additionally explains the boy's sister was turned into a demon; however believing she will not harm humans. He also observes that the boy possesses the same sharpened sense of smell as Sakonji does and requests that he train him, believing he could potentially grow to become the old man's successor.
Remembering this letter, the man now looks at Tanjiro as he is about to finish off the demon he has just restrained with a small knife. Tanjiro notes his strange mask, remembering how he never noticed the man's presence at all as his footsteps were so light. The boy asks him on the proper course of action but the man tells him not to trust what others say, claiming he must solve this alone.
Tanjiro spots a rock nearby and decides that instead of the knife, assuming he could use the rock to crush the demon's skull repeatedly until it eventually dies. However, before he is able to act, he feels a pang of sympathy imagining how much pain the demon would suffer and tries to think of a less painful method to kill it in one blow. Upon detecting Tanjiro's hesitation, Sakonji realizes Tanjiro's scent is overflowing with empathy, reluctance, and kindness even towards a demon, berating Giyu in his mind as he believes that Tanjiro isn't a suitable candidate. The demon then awakens and weakly tries to grab at Tanjiro.
Sakonji slapping Tanjiro for hesitating.
As Tanjiro continues to hesitate with making a move, the first rays of sunlight appear and instantly burn the demon to ashes, causing Tanjiro to realize why Nezuko dislikes the sun so much: Nezuko, inside the temple, has crawled back inside her basket to avoid the sunlight. Meanwhile, Sakonji gives the deceased a proper burial within the outside area. When Tanjiro approaches the man, he introduces himself as Sakonji Urokodaki but before Tanjiro has the opportunity to properly introduce himself and his sister, Sakonji questions Tanjiro on what he would do if his sister ever devoured a human being. Tanjiro pauses before answering and Sakonji slaps him, reprimanding him for being too hesitant to give a quicker response.
He tells Tanjiro that in the event of his sister ever eating a human being, he should kill her and then kill himself, as he conveys that is the reality of travelling with a demon-turned sibling. Sakonji firmly claims he must never let Nezuko take an innocent life, asking if Tanjiro understands him. Understanding the fundamental threat and danger of what he is doing, Tanjiro acknowledges. With his answer, the man tells him he will test his resolve to see if he is fit to be a Demon Slayer.
Tanjiro running after Sakonji.
Running in the middle of the day, Sakonji's speed makes it difficult for Tanjiro to follow after him. As he is running, Tanjiro feels sorry for Nezuko as she is being jostled around inside the basket. He recalls Nezuko always being patient whilst enduring hardships throughout her whole life. For the sake of their siblings, Nezuko had refused to buy new clothes in order to buy more food for them instead. Tanjiro firmly vows to turn her back into a human and give everything to her with the intent of redeeming himself for the things he is unable to do now for his deceased siblings. They soon reach a hut and Tanjiro breathlessly asks whether he had passed the test but Sakonji tells him that the test has only just begun, ordering him to ascend the mountain. Upon hearing these words, Tanjiro is dumbfounded but complies.
After leaving Nezuko in the hut, the pair head up the mountain. After a while, Tanjiro feels that his legs are tired to the point where he is unable to move them and his head grows dizzy. Upon reaching a certain point, Sakonji reveals to Tanjiro that the test is for him to reach the bottom of the mountain to where his house is, declaring he will not wait until dawn for him this time as Sakonji then vanishes within the haze. Surprised that the test is so simple, Tanjiro believes his sense of smell would make it a breeze and begins following Sakonji's scent. However, just as he takes a step, Tanjiro's foot gets caught into a trap which launches small rocks towards him. He then falls into a hidden pitfall, before he then accidentally triggers another trap right after crawling out, releasing a tied log that hits him from behind.
Tanjiro successfully returns.
Tanjiro grasps the possibility that he would not be able to reach the foot of the mountain by dawn if he continues to get caught in these traps. Moreover, the mountain's air is thinner than where he had lived before, causing him to have difficulties of breathing normally. Feeling desperate, Tanjiro wonders if he could truly make it back in time before steadying himself and tells himself with determination that he must make it back. By adjusting his breathing and concentrating, he attempts to smell out the distinctly different hidden human traps in the surroundings. Even so, he is not agile enough to avoid all of them.
Meanwhile, by the foot of the mountain, Sakonji places a blanket over the sleeping Nezuko. He suddenly hears some noise by his door and sees it open to discover a bloodied and battered Tanjiro panting heavily. As he slumps down to the ground, Tanjiro states he successfully made it back. As the morning sun begins to rise, Sakonji informs Tanjiro that he has now acknowledged him as his student.
Sakonji explains to Tanjiro that the Demon Slayer Corps consists of several hundred members, and despite it not being recognized by the government, they have fought demons for a long time and continue to battle demons today. However, its leader is shrouded in mystery.
He goes on to tell Tanjiro more information about demons. While it is unsure how they began to appear, there are things that are known with certainty; they must eat humans in order to survive and they have special abilities, such as being able to regenerate wounds when they're physically injured. Others can even change form or use special powers. The only way they can be destroyed is through exposure to sunlight or by decapitation with a specialized blade. The organization of the Demon Slayers have continued to hunt them with their mortal selves across a number of generations.
Sakonji then introduces his role as one of the many 'cultivators', individuals who train and furnish swordsmen with a variety of techniques and skills. He informs Tanjiro that if anyone desires to join the ranks of the Demon Slayers, they must first survive an event known as Final Selection, held at Mount Fujikasane. Sakonji reveals to Tanjiro how he will be the only one to decide if he is qualified enough to participate in Final Selection.
After numerous descents down Mount Sagiri, Tanjiro has grown stronger and his sense of smell has sharpened. However, he also discerns the traps are becoming alarmingly more dangerous at the same time, coming to the assumption of whether Sakonji's real motive is actually trying to kill him. When he makes a descent while holding a katana, it gets in the way and causes him to be ensnared in the traps again. Next, he is taught skills of the sword, swinging it repeatedly and Sakonji explaining how slicing along the direction of the blade is the way to make a direct cut, as it may break when used incorrectly.
Tanjiro trains with Sakonji.
Then, he is taught to get back up after a fall, with Sakonji repeatedly tripping him over for a whole day. He then instructs Tanjiro to attack him armed whilst he is bare-handed. The old trainer effortlessly flips him into the air and defeats his student with ease. He is then taught breathing forms, but when told to take a deep breath, Tanjiro's long inhale is answered by a slap in the stomach for using  the incorrect method.
Tanjiro trains for six months, but in that time, Nezuko continues to remain in a deep sleep. Sakonji calls on a doctor to comes by and look at her, but he finds nothing wrong with the demon. Anxious by the possibility of finding her dead, Tanjiro steels himself and decides to train harder.
Sakonji tells Tanjiro to split the boulder and prove himself.
After a full year of training, Sakonji tells Tanjiro that he has nothing else to teach him. Taken aback, Tanjiro notes the amount of time that has passed since their arrival. Sakonji tells the boy to continue improving his techniques and challenges Tanjiro to split a huge boulder in half in order to prove his worth and participate in Final Selection. Tanjiro starts to panic, as the task at hand seems impossible with a mere blade, but from that day onwards, Sakonji ceases to teach Tanjiro new skills.
As another six months passes, while his technique and body has gotten more refined, Tanjiro is still unable to split the rock no matter how hard he practices. Confused at his fruitless efforts and disheartened, he yells in frustration, to which a voice demands him to silence himself. Surprised, Tanjiro observes that the voice came from a person wearing a fox mask, perched on top of the boulder, a person who did not have a scent nor a presence. The masked boy tells Tanjiro to bear his suffering like a man would and attacks him using a wooden blade, which Tanjiro clumsily blocks. The boy notes the extent of Tanjiro's weaknesses, deeming him unsuitable to be a Demon Slayer.
The boy with a fox mask challenges Tanjiro to a fight, to which he declines as the stranger is only wielding a wooden sword, whilst Tanjiro has with him a real sword. The boy laughs at Tanjiro for believing he had a chance and declares that as someone who had succeeded in splitting the boulder, he wouldn't be hurt by someone weaker. Shocked by learning the boulder can be split, Tanjiro is beaten down by the stranger's superior technique, who continues to admonish him for only remembering Total Concentration Breathing as a fact without understanding it, much less using it.
Makomo appears.
Tanjiro claims he has tried to do so but the boy tells him that trying and doing it is not the same. Ordering him to attack with all his strength, Tanjiro swings at the stranger, who dodges and strikes him in the chin, knocking him unconscious. With his opponent defeated, the masked boy turns his attention to a girl entering the forest, only telling her, "I'll leave the rest to you".
Tanjiro sees the girl as he awakens and asks her if she had witnessed the fight. Tanjiro states to her how he wishes to be as skilled as the boy someday, stunned by his unique abilities. The girl replies that he will indeed be able to master those techniques one day, claiming she will be there to witness his strength. Tanjiro requests for her name, thinking to himself that the girl is cute. She introduces herself as Makomo and the boy with the fox mask as Sabito.
Over time, Makomo acts as Tanjiro's teacher to aid him in correcting his sword postures, bad habits, and breathing techniques. When Tanjiro asks why she was willing to teach him, she only replies, "We really like Urokodaki", to Tanjiro's confusion. Makomo also informs Tanjiro that she and Sabito are not siblings; they were orphans taken in by Sakonji along with many children that are currently watching him.
Makomo teaches him the importance of Total Concentration Breathing. It accelerates blood flow and increases the body's temperature, enabling them to match a demon's strength. By expanding the lungs, one can force much air into the body and become enhanced in strength. Tanjiro is perplexed by this understanding; when asking Makomo how it is possible, she only says, "You must train so hard that you could die. Basically, I don't think there's anything else you can do". Even after excessively training over time, to the point where his arms feels as if they may be ready to fall off along with his heart and lungs burning within his chest, Tanjiro is still unable to defeat Sabito.
Sabito's mask breaks, revealing his face.
Six months pass since Tanjiro has met Sakonji's students, culminating in a final spar with Sabito now armed with a real blade. A determined and changed Tanjiro announces to Sabito that this is the day he will win. In a simple head-on contest, the stronger and faster blade wins: Tanjiro and Sabito clash but the battle is over in an instant when Tanjiro becomes the one to strike first. Cutting through Sabito's fox mask, it falls off to reveal a both sad and relieved blissful smile from Sabito directed at him. A smiling Makomo tells him: "Win Tanjiro... against them too".
Sabito and Makomo disappear in a haze as Tanjiro realizes that his sword, believing had cut through Sabito's mask, actually sliced the boulder in half.
Sakonji informs his student of a crucial piece of information about defeating demons. He points out that they must be decapitated at the neck and that it can only be done with a special blade called a Nichirin Sword.
Sakonji giving Tanjiro his blessing.
Tanjiro realizes that his training with Makomo has enabled him to detect the Opening Thread: a scent he follows to guide his blade towards his opponent's neck. Sakonji enters the clearing and informs him that he had no intention of sending Tanjiro to Final Selection. He could not bear to watch another child die and was certain the boulder could not be sliced. Acknowledging his student as remarkable, he pulls him into a hug and asks him to return from Final Selection safely, as his sister and himself will wait for him.
Before setting off, Tanjiro receives a hand carved warding mask which looked similar to the ones worn by Sabito and Makomo, from Sakonji and says goodbye to a still sleeping Nezuko. He bids his trainer farewell, entrusting him to care for Nezuko, Sabito, and Makomo while he is away. Sakonji is left astonished that Tanjiro is somehow able to recall the names of "those deceased children", questioning how he knew who they were.
Arrival at Final Selection.
Arriving to the Final Selection at Mount Fujikasane, Tanjiro admires the wisteria flowers glistening the area as he climbs up the stairs, since they do not bloom at this time of the year. Once he reaches the top, he encounters a large number of young swordsmen waiting to participate in the event. Two curators organizing the event inform the students that the mountain contains demons captured alive by Demon Slayers, and due to the blooming wisteria surrounded around the foot of the mountain they are imprisoned inside the forest because of their hatred of its scent. However, the wisteria only reaches half way up its slope, and past the top where they are, demons are free to roam about and hunt. The applicants must survive there for seven days to pass Final Selection.
Once the selection begins, Tanjiro immediately encounters two demons who bicker over the right to kill and eat Tanjiro. As they both charge at him, he utilizes Water Breathing, Fourth Form: Striking Tide and detects the Opening Thread, successfully defeating the demons simultaneously.
The deformed demon that Tanjiro encounters.
As he takes a moment to pray for the demon's souls, he is caught off guard by an overwhelming stench, and the screams of a applicant running away. When he turns to face the sound, he witnesses a large deformed demon chasing the swordsman while carrying another boy by the throat. As the boy runs, the demon suddenly manifests a gigantic arm that grabs the boy by the leg, pulling him into the air. Tanjiro stands in fear but wills himself to use his skill to help save the boy. Before the demon is able to eat the him, Tanjiro intervenes by using Water Breathing, Second Form: Water Wheel to slice one of the limbs off of the demon, who glares back at Tanjiro and comments, "Another of my dear foxes has come!"
In the forests of Mount Sagiri, at the site of Tanjiro's sliced boulder, Sabito and Makomo converse about the boy they have taught. Makomo worriedly asks if Tanjiro will be able to 'do it'. Sabito is unsure and remarks that no amount of effort is to much.
The morphed demon asks Tanjiro what Meiji emperor now sits on the throne. When Tanjiro answers that the imperial family is now the Taisho, the demon roars in anger over being imprisoned for so long, new dynasties have occurred. He curses Sakonji Urokodaki out loud, and when Tanjiro asks how he knows of his trainer, he replies it was Sakonji himself who imprisoned him on Mount Fujikasane 47 years ago, during the Keio era of the Edo Period. Tanjiro is shocked, with the applicant he saved claiming he is lying, stating that the demons of Final Selection are ones who have only killed 2-3 people. The demon replies he has survived for so long by eating 50 of them.
The Hand Demon gloats over killing Sakonji's students.
Tanjiro suddenly remembers Sakonji's advice that a demon's strength is equal to its number of human victims. It begins to count to 14 and suddenly points at Tanjiro, claiming he is the fourteenth student of Sakonji he has encountered, having devoured the previous 13. He mentions two that he will never forget: one was a boy with peach colored hair and a scar on his mouth, the most powerful student he has faced, and the other was a small girl who made up for her lack of size and strength with extreme agility.
He adds that by knowing the texture of the warding mask they wear, he can identify them as Sakonji's students and devour them in revenge, claiming that he might as well had fed them to him. Finally, he mentions that when he told Makomo this, she flew into a rage and couldn't focus, leading him to rip her apart.
The demon strikes an erratic Tanjiro from the side.
Enraged, Tanjiro lunges towards the morphed demon, slicing away its arms erratically. Sabito, sensing his anguished fighting, tells him to even out his breathing and forget about them. The boy is then struck by a stray arm from the side and slams into a tree, breaking his mask. The applicant he had saved sees him about to die and runs away to escape. Before the demon can grab him, Tanjiro sees a vision of Shigeru begging him to wake up.
He avoids the demon's grasp barely and continues slicing away its arms. He senses a scent from below and leaps up to avoid more arms from grabbing him, surprising the demon. It tries to punch him with a giant arm but Tanjiro headbutts it to deflect the blow. Seeing he has escaped his hold, the demon remains unfazed, remembering that his neck is so tough, even Sabito was unable to slash through.
Tanjiro gets close and senses the Opening Thread. When Makomo fears that Tanjiro will die too, Sabito states that it is not certain whether he can win or lose, but what is undisputable is that the boulder Tanjiro had managed to sliced is the largest one anyone has ever managed to accomplish.
Tanjiro then uses Water Breathing, First Form: Water Surface Slash and cuts through the neck of the giant demon.
A younger Sakonji Urokodaki.
As Tanjiro lunges forward to kill the morphed demon, he suddenly remembers experiencing the same feeling when he was defeated by Sakonji Urokodaki. His blade cuts through its thick neck, defeating it.
As the demon's head falls to the ground and his body begins to disintegrate to ash, he curses Tanjiro for killing him. Unable to turn his head away, he laments that he will witness the face of a disgusted Demon Slayer as the final thing he would ever see. To his surprise, Tanjiro looks at him with a sad expression on his face. Seeing this reminds him of when he was once a scared boy who always asked for his brother's hand, before remembering that he had eaten him after becoming a demon.
The demon's body grows a hand extended to Tanjiro, who smells the scent of sadness from within it. He gently holds it and prays that during reincarnation, this demon would no longer become one, as the severed head begins to cry. In the afterlife, the demon is turned into a young boy holding his older brother's hand. In the forests of Mount Sagiri, the souls of Sakonji's fallen students disappear in the mist, finally put to rest. Despite this, Tanjiro believes that if he had died, his soul would be with Nezuko's and Sakonji's.
Two survivors of Final Selection.
After seven days, the survivors of Final Selection meet at the mountain peak's shrine again. Tanjiro is shocked to find only four of them have lived, since there were nearly 20 of them in the beginning, and he laments not seeing the applicant he had saved previously. The twins who welcomed them to the selection congratulate the survivors. One boy laments his survival as he believed he would die during it, while another boy asks for his katana. A girl among them quietly admires a butterfly instead.
The twins inform the survivors that they will be issued a uniform and have their ranks engraved, of which there are ten: Mizunoto, Mizunoe, Kanoto, Kanoe, Tsuchinoto, Tsuchinoe, Hinoto, Hinoe, Kinoto, and Kinoe. All survivors are given the rank of Mizunoto. The boy of earlier asks for his katana again, to which the twins respond that they will instead choose their ore now but the blades are to be completed two weeks later. They are then assigned a Kasugai Crow for communication, though the scared boy has a sparrow instead.
Tanjiro stopping the quarrelsome boy.
Angered, the quarrelsome survivor swats away his crow and grabs one of the twins by the hair, demanding his sword now. Tanjiro grabs his arm and demands he let go, threatening to break it. When the boy implores him to try, Tanjiro tightens his grip, hurting him into pulling away. Afterwards, they are presented with the ores of their blades.
At an unknown location, a man is informed by a Kasugai Crow that five have survived Final Selection. He wonders what kind of swordsmen they may become.
After surviving Final Selection, an exhausted Tanjiro walks back to Mount Sagiri, using a stick to support himself on his trek back to his trainer's hut. He laments his inability to gather information from at least eight demons, who did not answer his questions and tried to kill him, apologizing to Nezuko for his ill-fated optimism and failure.
Tanjiro reunites with Nezuko and Sakonji.
As night falls, he finally makes it back to Sakonji's hut. To his surprise, the door is kicked down and Nezuko walks out onto the yard. Seeing her awake for the first time in two years, he calls out to his sister and she runs to him. Tanjiro tries to race down to meet her but falls down due to his exhausted state. As he gets up, Nezuko reaches around and pulls him into a hug, while Tanjiro cries and holds her close, asking why she was asleep for so long. Sakonji then appears and embraces the siblings as tears fall from his mask, happy that a student of his has finally come home.
Fifteen days later, a man with unusual clothes and a hat lined with furin appears in Sakonji's residence. He introduces himself as Haganezuka and states that he has forged the sword of Tanjiro Kamado. Tanjiro says he is the recipient but Haganezuka puts down his Nichirin Sword onto the ground to unwrap it, ignoring Tanjiro's offer to come inside. He explains that the iron and sand used to forge it absorb sunlight, and it originates from a mountain that is constantly bathed in light. Inside his hut, Sakonji is annoyed that Haganezuka is speaking his mind without the consideration of others.
Haganezuka, Tanjiro's swordsmith, arrives to deliver his blade.
Suddenly, he turns to face Tanjiro, who is shocked to see him wearing a hyottoko mask. He calls Tanjiro a 'child of brightness', though he attempts to correct him by saying he is actually the son of Tanjuro and Kie. Haganezuka points out that he is talking about his red hair and eyes, saying he must come from a family that works with fire, surprising him. He turns to Sakonji and states that it would mean his blade would turn red.
Inside, Tanjiro prepares to unsheathe his blade for the first time. Haganezuka mentions that Nichirin Sword are also known as 'color-changing sword' as they do so with each wielder. Upon revealing the blade, Tanjiro watches as it turns black. Hearing Sakonji's and Haganezuka's reaction, the former puts his student at ease by pointing out that a black blade is simply uncommon, not a symbol of bad luck. However, Haganezuka is less than pleased, as he had hoped to see a red sword, and proceeds to attack Tanjiro.
Tanjiro's Kasugai crow interrupts the dispute to inform Tanjiro to disembark on his first mission, to resolve the mystery of girls disappearing night after night in a neighboring town.

As Tanjiro embarks on his mission as an officiated Demon Slayer, he remembers information provided to him by Sakonji. Nichirin Swords change color according to their users, but so little is known about swordsmen with black blades, it is believed they don't progress far. His uniform is made of a special breathable fabric that is waterproof and fire-resistant, as well as strong enough to repel the claws and teeth of a weak demon. Before leaving, he is given a new box by Sakonji for carrying Nezuko during the day, made with lighter stronger wood and lacquer for durability. He also mentions his idea that perhaps Nezuko sleeps to gain strength as an alternative to eating humans.
Tanjiro questions Kazumi about Satoko's disappearance.
As he walks through the town assigned as his mission, he notices a dishevelled man in the crowd. The man, Kazumi, is pitied by the folk as he was with the latest victim, Satoko, when she disappeared. Tanjiro questions him and Kazumi takes the Demon Slayer to where she vanished. Though he believes the boy will dissuade him, Tanjiro fully supports his idea that she disappeared and kneels to the ground, detecting the faint scent of a demon. Watching him investigate, Kazumi remembers when he had told Satoko's parents of what had happened, and her father had beaten him for blaming her disappearance as her simply vanishing.
As night approaches, a girl inside her house prepares to go to sleep. Lying in her futon, she sadly wonders on the whereabouts of the missing girls and hopes they are alright. Suddenly, her bedroom floor transforms into a dark puddle and demonic arms grab her from beneath; the girl is unable to scream and is dragged into the dark murk.
Tanjiro suddenly runs away, causing Kazumi to follow him as he explains that the scent is now stronger and that a demon is nearby by. He leaps up onto the rooftops to get a better view of the town and a stunned Kazumi realizes that the rumors of demons and the Demon Slayers are true. Tanjiro gets down and, detecting where the scent is strongest, stabs his blade into the ground, causing murky water to spurt out. He sees something in the water and grabs the girl, pulling her away from the demon.
Tanjiro meets the Swamp Demon.
From the puddle emerges a horned demon, causing Tanjiro to realize that it possesses a Blood Demon Art, remembering Sakonji's advice that they are supernatural abilities belonging to certain demons. He questions the demon about the missing girls but it instead grinds its teeth in anger and disappears. Entrusting the girl to Kazumi, he senses the scent approaching but is shocked to see three demons. Thinking quickly, he uses Water Breathing, Eighth Form: Waterfall Basin, hitting all three targets at once.
Before preparing for his first mission, Sakonji informs Tanjiro that only one demon has blood that is able to transform someone into a demon. It was the first demon to ever exist, doing so over a thousand years ago. It was the demon that killed his family and perhaps the only one who knows how to reverse a transformation. The demon's name is Muzan Kibutsuji.
Despite his attempt to strike all three demons at once, Tanjiro's attacks fails to hit its weak spots. He notes that they all have the same scent and surmises that they are clones of the same demon. Despite the trouble of protecting two people from three demons, he remembers knowing to ask them about information regarding Muzan Kibutsuji.
The Swamp Demon angered at Tanjiro.
When one clone tries to grab Kazumi, Tanjiro flips back and uses Water Breathing, Second Form: Water Wheel. He fails again to cut deeper than he had hoped and the demon escapes him. Suddenly, the clone angrily demands he stop interfering with his hunt, claiming that since the girl is now 16, she will taste worse. Another clone emerges and calms the first, claiming that he has already devoured much victims and that he is satisfied. Kazumi demands the demon let Satoko go when the last clone appears behind him.
He opens his robe to reveal a large collection of hairpins, telling him that if hers is in the bunch, she was already devoured. Kazumi, upon seeing Satoko's ribbon among them, begins to cry, while Tanjiro grows enraged at the number of lost lives, remembering the pain of losing his family and Nezuko's transformation. A clone then tries to attack Tanjiro but he dodges away from the blow and cuts off its arm, though he fails again to hit its neck.
Suddenly, another clone appears out of the wall, forcing Tanjiro to duck away and avoid it. When another appears behind him, Tanjiro tries to use his Water Breathing but is unable to react in time. As the demon gets close, it is kicked in the head by Nezuko emerging from her box. As Kazumi and the Swamp Demon watch with surprise, the demon questions why one of his kind is accompanying a swordsman.
Nezuko envisioning Takeo and Hanako.
Nezuko walks to Kazumi and the girl and envisions her siblings Takeo and Hanako in them. As Tanjiro see his sister's behavior, he remembers that Sakonji had informed him about something regarding Nezuko. As she slept, he tried to hypnotize her with a message: "All humans are your family. Protect humanity. Demons are your enemy. Never forgive demons for the harm they do".  Tanjiro watches as Nezuko prepares to battle the Swamp Demon, an angered expression written on her face.
Nezuko raises her leg and attempts to deliver an axe kick to the demon's clone, but it hides back into its swamp before she makes contact. Tanjiro warns her away from chasing after it and calls her to come back; as she does, another clone tries to grab her but she leaps over it and stands beside her brother. Remembering Sakonji's words that as a demon, Nezuko is no longer weak, Tanjiro wonders if he can leave Nezuko to protect Kazumi and the girl.
Tanjiro inside the demon's swamp.
Suddenly, the swamp puddle appears beneath him and he begins to sink in, but not before telling Nezuko to protect the two bystanders. Inside the murky lair, he sees a large number of clothes and belongings once owned by the demon's victims, calling his actions unforgivable. Two clones then appear and mock him for deciding to enter their domain, as there is almost no air and the heaviness of the swamp will slow him movement. Nonetheless, Tanjiro warns them not to doubt him, as the training he received on Mount Sagiri had made him accustomed to even thinner air than the swamp.
He then sees an opportunity to use a form that will best utilize his conditions underwater. The clones then swim around him at great speeds and at sharp angles, momentarily confusing him. However, he remains focused and knows he can kill them up close. He aligns his sword for a form made with unsteady footwork and able to generate a strong spin. As the clones get close, Tanjiro detects the Opening Thread and uses Water Breathing, Sixth Form: Whirlpool and slashes the two demons' necks at once with a powerful cutting vortex, killing them. Afterwards, he begins to feel the strain of the lack of air and swims to the surface to Nezuko.
Nezuko battles the last clone.
Above ground, Nezuko battles the last clone and lands a strong punch onto its stomach. It notes her strength without possessing any strange abilities and believes that she must have received much blood from Tanjiro. Nezuko is preventing him from entering his swamp, but the clone notes that her attacks are simple and easy to get accustomed to, as well as the futility of her attacks due to his healing. The clone succeeds in cutting Nezuko's face with his hand and dazes her. Seeing her standing still, he tries to kill her but has his right arm suddenly sliced off.
Tanjiro appears between them and cuts off its other limb. Falling to the ground and confronted by the Demon Slayer, the clone realizes that his other two selves have already been killed. Tanjiro admonishes them for their number of victims and the demon only growls at him that when women age, they get ugly and taste bad. When it claims the victims should be thankful they were devoured, Tanjiro angrily slashes its mouth to prevent it from talking further. Pointing his blade at the demon, he demands it tell him everything he knows about Muzan Kibutsuji. To his surprise, the demon suddenly becomes frightened.
Muzan threatens the Swamp Demon.
The demon remembers when Muzan Kibutsuji had threatened him severely. Grabbed by the neck and lifted up, he hears Muzan's threats to never say his name to anyone, as he will immediately know and that he will always be watching him.
Despite being threatened with death, the terrified demon denies Tanjiro's question about Muzan and shakes his head, incessantly rambling that he cannot say anything. Watching the demon tremble uncontrollably, he notes the strong scent of fear in him. Growing back his arms instantly, the demon yells out that he cannot say anything and tries to attack Tanjiro, forcing him to cut through his neck, killing the demon once and for all. Once more, Tanjiro is dismayed that he has not gotten any information.
Tanjiro returns to find a sleeping Nezuko and apologizes to her once again for failing to gather intel on how to revert her back into a human. He sees Kazumi on the floor with a distraught look on his face and checks to see if he is alright. Kazumi rhetorically asks him if he looks alright after having lost the love of his life, to which Tanjiro advises him to keep living no matter how many times he might lose something precious to him. Angered by his dismissive demeanor, Kazumi belittles Tanjiro, asking what he would know about losing something precious being just a child.
Tanjiro smiles at Kazumi.
Tanjiro gives him a gentle smile and offers Kazumi the hair bow that belonged to Satoko, to give him something to remember her by. Realizing his insensitive mistake, Kazumi apologizes to Tanjiro as he leaves the village, sadly looking at his callused hand and knowing it was only possible through relentless training. As he makes his exit from the village, Tanjiro makes the realization that he is not the only one to suffer loss from demons, blaming Muzan for all the pain they have caused. His Kasugai Crow then lands on his shoulder and immediately informs him to investigate a rumor regarding a hidden demon in Asakusa, dismaying Tanjiro that he already has a new mission immediately after his last.
Two days after leaving the village, Tanjiro and Nezuko arrive in the bustling city of Asakusa. Being raised in the mountains the majority of his life, he are immediately overwhelmed by the enormous crowds, large buildings, and stunning lights. They take a break from the crowds and arrive at a noodle cart at the city's edge where Nezuko sleeps and Tanjiro grabs a bite to eat. However as he awaits for his meal, he is caught off guard by an unexpected familiar scent nearby.
Tanjiro meets Muzan Kibutsuji in Asakusa.
He takes off following the trail and discovers Muzan Kibutsuji hidden within the crowds of people. He reaches for his katana and is about to engage Muzan before he realizes that he is carrying a young child in his arms. Muzan is joined shortly after by his wife. He stands before him horrified and confused as to why the young girl and her mother are with him. The young woman then goes on to ask Muzan if he has any sort of affiliation with Tanjiro, to which he denies.
While the woman and the young child look at Tanjiro, Muzan reaches behind and quickly scratches the neck of a pedestrian, turning him into a demon. The only one to witness this, Tanjiro reaches forward to try and subdue the newly transformed demon before he attacks anyone, but fails as the man begins attacking his wife.

Tanjiro tries to stop the new demon.
The newly transformed demon bites into his wife's shoulder, horrifying the crowd around them. Tanjiro runs at the demon and pulls him away from her, stuffing his hood into his mouth as a muzzle. Despite her concerns for him, Tanjiro orders her to put pressure on her bite. Muzan tells his frightened wife that it would be best to move away and they leave the situation.
Seeing his target escaping, Tanjiro yells out Muzan's name and declares he will never let him get away. His wife becomes worried at his behavior but Muzan instead notices Tanjiro's earrings. As he declares that he will feel his sword on his neck, proclaiming he would never forgive him, the demon remembers when a Demon Slayer had him cornered, and that he too was wearing Tanjiro's earrings.
The authorities arrive at the scene and order Tanjiro to release the man immediately, not knowing his demonic nature. Tanjiro pleads with them to either restrain the man or to not interfere, not wanting any harm to come to anyone else. The police ignore him and try to pull the boy off but Tanjiro desperately holds on, unwilling to let the demon go.
Two demons offer help to Tanjiro.
A woman is seen engraving her nails into her arms causing her wounds to bleed. Tanjiro notices a shift in the scent of the environment and an illusionary pattern engulfs his vision. The police are blinded by the patterns and can no longer see Tanjiro. He goes on the defensive thinking that he is about to get attacked by another demon but is surprised when the woman comes forward accompanied by a boy. She reveals that she is as he had detected, a demon, and adds her intentions of wanting to help Tanjiro defeat Muzan.
Elsewhere in Asakusa, Muzan claims to his wife and daughter that he has a meeting to attend to, and adds that he will ask the police about the "incident" earlier, easing his family's concern. As they ride away in a taxi, Muzan shortcuts through an alleyway but accidentally bumps a drunk man. He apologizes and walks away but the man holds onto him. Muzan again apologizes and claims he is in a hurry but the drunkard does not take kindly to Muzan's expensive clothes, before mocking his skin complexion and claiming he looks half-dead.
Enraged, Muzan immediately kills the man with one swing of his arm and his lifeless body is slammed head first against a wall. The second larger man angrily approaches Muzan and demands an explanation for what happened to the other man, who he regards as his brother, and the woman accompanying the men cries out as she realizes he is dead. To her horror, she looks back to see that Muzan has killed the second man by kicking him in the air with such force that blood spews out from his mouth and rains down on her below.
Muzan finally approaches the terrified woman and mocks her with a series of questions regarding his appearance. He touches her forehead and forcefully pierces her skull, injecting massive amounts of his blood into her, as he tells her that she will not be able to withstand the transformation and her cells will disintegrate one by one. The woman starts to scream but quickly transforms into a demon-like creature before dissolving into ash.
At the snap of his fingers, two new individuals appear before Muzan, with him instructing them to kill the "demon hunter with the hanafuda earrings", alluding to Tanjiro.
At the udon vendor from earlier, the owner yells at Nezuko for not eating his food. She sits there puzzled by his anger until Tanjiro returns and takes the chopsticks from the vendors hands and quickly slurps down the noodles. He thanks and compliments the vendor's cooking before leaving with Nezuko, and the man is left somewhat angry but still flattered by his compliment.
As they walk down the street, Tanjiro apologizes for leaving Nezuko alone but is suddenly stopped by her wariness of someone at the end of the street. Tanjiro calls out him who turns out to be the demon from earlier, letting him know that there was no need to wait for him as he could've followed the scent back to the hideout. The demon rejects his claim saying that there was no way that they could be tracked and questions Nezuko's presence -since she's a demon- while simultaneously calling her a hag. Tanjiro is insulted by his remark and argues that his sister is in fact considered his town's beauty.
Nezuko and an annoyed Tanjiro following the demon.
They travel behind the demon until they arrive at a house with a pinned piece of paper. When they enter the building they stumble upon the demon lady treating the injured woman who was attacked by her spouse. Out of curiosity, Tanjiro questions if it is hard for the woman to resist wanting to attack the humans that she treats. Before she is able to respond, the demon beside him elbows Tanjiro and berates him for asking such a ridiculous question. The woman chides her assistant to stop being violent and formally introduces themselves as Tamayo and Yushiro.
Going back to Tanjiro's question, she explains that she is different from normal demons since she has altered her body and removed Muzan's curse. She goes into detail saying that she doesn't need to feed on human flesh, and only needs to drink small amounts of human blood in order to survive. Her methods involve purchasing blood from poor individuals under the facade that they would be used for medical transfusions, explaining why they do not have a distinct demon scent. Tamayo reveals that Yushiro requires less blood then she does and that he was the only individual that she was able to successfully transform into a demon after experimenting for more than 200 years.
Tanjiro and Nezuko meeting Tamayo at her office.
Being stunned by her claims, Tanjiro brazenly asks Tamayo how old she truly is, causing Yushiro to hit him in a rage. She sternly warn him not to hit Tanjiro again, before then explaining that she does not have ill intentions to increase the number of demons in the world; she simply strives to find a solution to treat the incurable so they can live a little longer. Tanjiro senses her pure intent and decides to seek Tamayo's help in finding a way to turn demons back into humans.
In an alley at another part of the city, walking down the street, a demon playing with a temari ball is seen accompanying a second demon with eyes on his hands, who begins to track a set footprints on the floor. The Arrow Demon accurately identifies their provided targets, and when the Temari Demon asks how they will kill them, he answer they will do so brutally.
Tamayo reprimanding Yushiro for hitting Tanjiro
Tamayo confirms Tanjiro's suspicions on being able to turn a demon back into a human. He rushes forward to Tamayo eager to know the method but Yushiro flips him back, preventing him from getting too close to Tamayo. She angrily warns Yushiro again not to hit Tanjiro to which he cheekily responds, "I just threw him. I did not hit him". Tamayo tells Tanjiro that in order to establish a cure, she would need to study Nezuko's blood and that he would need to collect samples from demon who contain high concentrations of Muzan's blood. She goes on to inform him that Nezuko has a rare and special condition regarding the fact that she had slept for two years to regain her strength and since she hasn't consumed human or animal flesh within that period.
Tamayo warns Tanjiro that the task of collecting demon blood would not be easy and questions if he would still be willing to try. Tanjiro responds, " If that's the only way, I'll do it. It will help, not just Nezuko but lots of others right?", and a relieved Tamayo smiles at his optimism; Tanjiro blushes slightly at her smile but quickly realizes that Yushiro is displeased. At that moment, a speeding temari begin to destroy the house's interior.
Having battered the interior and exterior of the house, the Temari Demon is impressed that her accomplice Yahaba had detected it, since it was hidden by a Blood Demon Art. He calls on her to see if their chosen target is inside but additionally chides the demon, Susamaru, for dirtying his kimono with her messy way of attacking. Bemused, she tells him to stop complaining about his clothes as she has found the inhabitants with her attack.
Hunching over Nezuko to protect her, Tanjiro is shocked to discover all the damage done was through hurling a simple temari. Yushiro sees her and wonders if the demon is a servant of Muzan. Susamaru throws her weapon again and it bounces inside the house, forcing everyone to duck. When Yushiro stands up to face her, he is suddenly decapitated when the temari unexpectedly swerves into his head. In disbelief at seeing him take a hit, Tanjiro orders Nezuko to take the injured woman away to safety.
As Susamaru laughs over killing one of her opponents, Tanjiro points his blade at the demon and notes that her scent is far stronger than all of the demons he had previously battle. Suddenly, she remarks that "the Demon Slayer with hanafuda earrings... is you", causing him to realize he is her target. He tells Tamayo to fall back, and she responds that he mustn't worry about them since they can heal. Susamaru then hurls a temari right at him; utilizing his fastest form, Tanjiro stabs it dead-on with Water Breathing, Seventh Form: Drop Ripple Thrust - Curve.
Susamaru gets serious.
Only mildly surprised, Susamaru seemingly causes the temari to slide of his blade and come back to her, with Tanjiro noting its unnatural movement were also evident when it struck Yushiro. Tamayo holds Yushiro's body and sees his neck and mouth heal, speaking of his dismay in Tamayo becoming associated with Tanjiro, since his concealment-based Blood Demon Art cannot fully hide something's existence. Healing the rest of his head, he declares his hatred of anyone interfering with his time with her.
Laughing at Yushiro's threats, Susamaru removes her kimono and states that they should be honored to be killed by her, a member of the Twelve Kizuki. She grows two new pairs of arms and creates four more temaris, now totalling six. Hurling them all at once, she succeeds in injuring both Yushiro and Tamayo, while Tanjiro struggles to find a way to stop them. Yushiro chastises him for not see the arrows; when Tanjiro becomes confused, the demon attaches a talisman imbued with his sight to his head, giving him the ability to see that the temaris being led by invisible arrows.
Nezuko attacks a hiding Yahaba.
Now able to see their direction, he directs Nezuko's attention to up a tree in the backyard, where Yahaba is hiding and controlling them. Nezuko repeatedly kicks him, causing the arrows to weaken when Susamaru throws them at Tanjiro, and he quickly uses the Water Breathing, Third Form: Flowing Dance to cut through them all.
He then rushes the Temari Demon and cuts off all her arms at once. Asking Tamayo if the demons are close to Muzan, she answers that they may be, giving him the motivation to give her their blood.
Yushiro reminds Tanjiro to stay vigilant as if the demons truly are two of the Twelve Kizuki, they will be stronger than any he has previously faced. As Tanjiro acknowledges his warning, he then suggests to Tamayo that they should run while the enemy is distracted with Tanjiro and Nezuko. When she gives him a horrified look, he quickly says he was "just joking."
Yushiro ordering Tanjiro to battle Yahaba first while he and Tamayo will work with Nezuko to handle Susamaru
At the same time, Nezuko has gone after Yahaba, kicking him repeatedly to force him out of the tree. Annoyed by the dust being kicked up, he telekinetically pushes the demon away from him. Susamaru quickly heals all of her arms, which Tanjiro notes is faster than any demon from Final Selection had managed to do, before colliding with Nezuko being shoved by Yahaba.  Yushiro orders Tanjiro to battle Yahaba first while he and Tamayo will work with Nezuko to handle Susamaru. Before continuing on to Yahaba, Tanjiro tells Nezuko to be careful and the girl then briefly sees Tamayo and Yushiro as her mother and Rokuta, giving her the determination to protect them.
Tanjiro and Nezuko switch targets.
The siblings switch positions and go after their respective targets. Facing off with Yahaba, Tanjiro sees the Opening Thread, but it very quickly snaps when Yahaba tells Tanjiro to stay away from him, using arrows to disrupt his footwork. The arrows continue to drag him around the yard before throwing him high into the air. The demon then withholds the arrow's pull, causing the Demon Slayer to plummet, only surviving by using Water Breathing, Eighth Form: Waterfall Basin to break his fall.
Tamayo warning Nezuko not to kick the temari.
Yahaba then notes to Susamaru that Tamayo is a runaway demon and believes she would make a good present for Muzan. Susamaru agrees and hurls a temari straight to Nezuko. Though Tamayo warns her not to kick it, Nezuko makes contact and the temari breaks off her right foot. As she is down, Susamaru kicks her into the house where she slams into the wall. The Temari Demon wonders if all four would be good enough to kill, though the Arrow Demon only sees value in Tanjiro and Tamayo.
Inside the house, Tamayo gives Nezuko a serum to accelerate her slow regeneration. Tanjiro meanwhile is unable to find a way to bypass the arrows, seeing as they are moving too fast, he cannot cut them with his sword, and because they will disrupt any chance he makes at attacking Yahaba. An arrow then twirls around his arm, Yahaba intending to twist it off; Tanjiro quickly leaps upwards, causing his body to spin and keep his arm in motion, breaking free and annoying the demon.
Thinking quickly, he surmises that he can use multiple forms together and change the arrows' direction. As Yahaba sends them to kill Tanjiro, he uses Water Breathing, Sixth Form: Whirlpool: Flow and catches them all in his sword's direction. Despite the heavy weight of his blade, Tanjiro musters the strength to use Second Form: Lateral Water Wheel, Improved, successfully beheading Yahaba.
Tanjiro caught in Yahaba's arrows.
After successfully decapitating Yahaba, Tanjiro notes that the Whirlpool form, though weaker in open air, was able to gain momentum by using the arrows. Yahaba rants and curses the Demon Slayer for ruining his chance at recognition from Muzan, declaring he would never forgive him. Suddenly numerous arrows begin to form within Tanjiro, the Arrow Demon intending to kill him as he dies.
Suddenly pulled, Tanjiro becomes alarmed and uses the Water Breathing, Fourth Form: Striking Tide to avoid crashing into a wall. The arrows start throwing his body in multiple directions and he is forced to use continuous breathing techniques such as the Water Breathing, Second Form: Water Wheel, then Drop Ripple Thrust, Water Surface Slash, Waterfall Basin, Water Wheel and then Striking Tide, to protect himself; while doing so, he notes that he had never used so many forms at once. Eventually, the arrows fade and Tanjiro is released.
He manages to land back to the ground with the Water Breathing, Sixth Form: Whirlpool. However, his body has already sustained a substantial amount of damage, leaving him with a broken leg and multiple rib fractures. Tanjiro lays on the ground, wincing from the pain but nonetheless grabs hold of his blade in his mouth and wills himself to move. He proceeds to crawl on the floor towards everyone else, mentally pleading for Tamayo, Yushiro, and Nezuko to be safe.
At the same time, Susamaru suddenly sees her own temari launched at her by Nezuko. Having healed and kicked it back the Temari Demon, Nezuko then engages her in a back and forth confrontation, kicking a temari at each other with increasing power and speed. Eventually, Nezuko is able to absorb the momentum and kick it back with such force, even Susamaru is forced to dodge it. Yushiro wonders if the drug Tamayo had given her had also improved her strength, but she notes that all it did was aid her regeneration.
Susamaru is affected by Muzan's curse.
They are witnessing Nezuko's own strength without devouring humans. Despite this, Tamayo knows that should Susamaru utilize her full strength, even Nezuko would lose.  As Susamaru begins to feel excitement over seeing Nezuko's power, Tamayo stands in front of Nezuko and asks the Temari Demon of what she knows of Muzan. Susamaru attempts to dismiss her as the runaway unworthy of speaking about him but Tamayo claims that Muzan is little more than a coward who is always afraid.
Angered, Susamaru tries to silence her but Tamayo continues, saying the true reasons demons don't group up isn't because they will eat each other but because Muzan fears they will all overpower his control.  Aghast, Susamaru attempts to defend her master's honour, speaking about his unmatched strength and abilities. Yushiro notes that Tamayo has used an ability. Suddenly, the Temari Demon, in her defence of Muzan, says his last name, horrifying her.
Tamayo had used Magical Aroma of Daylight: a truth serum-like spell that inhibits brain function on the affected and prevents them from withholding secrets. Tamayo mentions that saying his name will trigger the curse, and though she pities her, she had no choice. Now frightened, Susamaru runs away and desperately begs for Muzan's forgiveness, only for her body to drastically change, hunching over in pain. As Tanjiro watches, three giant arms burst from the Temari Demon's body.
Yushiro covering Tanjiro's face with a cloth
Susamaru's body is torn apart by the arms summoned by Muzan's curse. The gory scene leaves everyone in a state of shock as her body is dismantled. In the aftermath, Tanjiro asks Tamayo if Susamaru was dead and she responds that she will be shortly. She describes how fighting between demons is pointless as sunlight and beheading through Nichirin Swords are the only two ways to cause major damage; however, Muzan alone appears to be capable of destroying demons. Yushiro approaches Tanjiro and covers his face with a cloth, preventing him from breathing in Tamayo's Blood Demon Art since it is harmful to humans.
Tamayo looks at Susamaru's eyeball and reports that she was not one of the Twelve Kizuki, much to Tanjiro's dismay. She mentions how a true member would have a number engraved on their eyeball, but Susamaru and Yahaba do not, as they are too weak. Tanjiro is shocked to learn this since they put up a difficult fight. She nonetheless collects blood from Susamaru's corpse and apologizes to Tanjiro for letting Nezuko breathe in some of her spell, moving to examine her. Yushiro remarks that the demons deserved their fate for threatening Tamayo, before leaving Tanjiro to hold the cloth by himself.
Tanjiro recovers Susamaru's temari ball.
While he tries to pick himself up, Tanjiro hears a voice from Susamaru's remains asking for her temari. Slowly, he picks up the last remaining temari and places it next to her remains, listening to her asking for someone to "play" with. He notes that despite the number of people she had killed, she still retained a childish personality. As the sun comes up and her corpse completely disintegrates, Tanjiro finds no justice in her fate, being manipulated, forced to fight, and eventually killed by the one whom she worshipped. He pins the blame on Muzan and deems him a "true demon".
Tanjiro moves back into the house, going to the basement where the three demons are sheltering. Nezuko runs over to give him a hug, then runs back to Tamayo to also hug her and pat Yushiro on the head, much to Yushiro's annoyance. Confused, Tamayo questions Tanjiro for Nezuko's actions and he replies that she likely thought of them as her family, treating them as the humans she must protect rather than demons. He expresses relief that Nezuko still maintains her own will until Tamayo starts crying, shocking Tanjiro. He asks Nezuko to stop hugging her as it was rude and profusely apologizes to Tamayo, but she thanks her instead and pulls Nezuko closer.
Nezuko hugs Tamayo, much to Yushiro's jealousy.
Seeing her vulnerable, Yushiro remembers the day he had first met Tamayo: dying to a terminal illness. Tamayo then explains that thought their professions as doctors allows them to stay hidden, eventually, they will be discovered as demons and asks Tanjiro if he would allow Nezuko to stay with them as it was much safer than on the battlefield, much to Yushiro's displeasure. He ponders for a bit but Nezuko grabs his hand and knowingly looks at him. Tanjiro smiles and thanks Tamayo for the offer, but he preferred to be by Nezuko's side at all times, never again being separated and thinks of his family. Tamayo accepts his choice, wishing him good luck and bids farewell. Before the siblings leave, Yushiro concedes his earlier statement and calls Nezuko beautiful, much to Tanjiro's pleasure.
Later during that day, Tanjiro's Kasugai Crow continually harasses him to go to south-southeast. While requesting for his crow to be more quiet, the two suddenly hear a loud voice coming from a yellow haired boy, seen on the road begging a girl to marry him.

Tanjiro stops Zenitsu.
The sparrow of the yellow-haired Demon Slayer begs for Tanjiro's help. He grabs him and pulls him away from the girl, asking if he cannot see she wants nothing to do with him. Suddenly, the boy notices that Tanjiro is also wearing a Demon Slayer Corps uniform. Tanjiro denies knowing him but the stranger remembers him from Final Selection.
Tanjiro pulling a girl off Zenitsu.
Tanjiro ignores him and tells the girl he was harassing that it was alright for her to return home, and she thanks him. Panicking, he yells that she couldn't leave as she "liked" him and they had to be married. He is responded to with a slap from her, and she starts beating him, prompting Tanjiro to hurry over and pull her off, asking her to calm down. She berates the stranger, stating that she never liked him and only talked to him because she thought he was wounded or sick when he lied on the side of the road. Shocked, he replies that he thought she was helping him out of love and worry. The girl angrily mentions it was impossible as she has a fiancé, stomping away and telling him he appeared fine now and hoped they would never met again.
Tanjiro chiding Zenitsu for his lack of shame.
Heartbroken, the Demon Slayer complains to Tanjiro about his interference, in which he receives a disgusted face as a reply. He demands him to not use that face as it looked like he was looking at him as some sort of creature, before blaming him for preventing his "marriage." Again, Tanjiro only replies with the same face, much to his annoyance. He claims that he is about to die as he was weak, begging Tanjiro to protect him before he got married. Tanjiro doesn't respond and introduces himself, to which the Demon Slayer introduces himself as Zenitsu Agatsuma. Tanjiro starts chiding Zenitsu for his lack of shame, in which he replies that he was deceived by a woman and indebted, saved by his master but forced to train harshly every day, sorrowfully stating his dislike for his occupation. Tanjiro gives him his lunch and tells him he understands, but he should cause less trouble for his sparrow.
Tanjiro and Zenitsu arrive at the Tsuzumi Mansion.
Both Demon Slayers arrive at Tanjiro's assigned mission, a mansion in a mountain forest. Tanjiro smells blood from inside and Zenitsu hears an unusual sound, before they see two children huddled together at the edge of the forest. They try to approach them, but the children move away in fright. Noticing the fact that they were likely still in shock from something, Tanjiro entertains them with Zenitsu's sparrow, calming them down. The older child, tells Tanjiro that their older brother was kidnapped when they were walking in the night, and the kidnapper went into the house. Tanjiro praises him and his sister for following the monster, but the boy cries and said they followed his blood trail, upset that their older brother was hurt. Tanjiro soothes them and said he would defeat the monster and save their brother, much to their relief.
Zenitsu asking if Tanjiro can hear something.
Zenitsu suddenly retorts hearing a sound similar to a drum, expressing discomfort. Tanjiro replies that he couldn't hear a sound but is interrupted by a man flying out of the window, falling onto the ground. Tanjiro rushes over to check on him, alarmed at his deep wound. The man says he finally got out and asks if he was going to die, in which Tanjiro can only respond to with a hug. All of a sudden, a large sound comes out of the house, coming from a strange demon.
Tanjiro giving Zenitsu a spiteful look.
Tanjiro distraughtly realizes the man that fell out of the house is now dead, upset at the amount of pain he must've felt. The older child tells him their brother was wearing a persimmon-colored kimino and the man that had just perished was not him. Tanjiro internally apologizes to the deceased man, promising to give him a burial when he returns. He calls for Zenitsu to join him on the mission to defeat the demon in the house, but after looking at Zenitsu's distressed face, angrily goes on alone. Scared by Tanjiro's furious expression, Zenitsu reluctantly tags along. Before they enter the house, Tanjiro entrusts Nezuko's box to the two children, telling them that what's in the box will protect them in case of danger.
Tanjiro enters the Tsuzumi Mansion.
As the two Demon Slayers enter the house, Zenitsu trembles and confides in Tanjiro to protect him. He apologizes to him, saying he has multiple broken bones and Zenitsu cries in shock, protesting that he was no longer safe without someone to protect him despite Tanjiro's attempts to comfort him. Unexpectedly, the children run inside the house, frightened by the noises coming out of Tanjiro's box and a dismayed Tanjiro tells them they couldn't just leave it outside as it was more important than his life.
The group Tanjiro, Zenitsu, Teruko, and Shoichi accidentally get accidentally gets separated from each other.
Suddenly, the group hears a sound and accidentally gets separated , Zenitsu with the boy and Tanjiro with the girl. The latter pair is stunned to see the room change, with Tanjiro noticing how it shifted with a drum's beat. He apologizes to her for separating from her brother and vows to protect her, wiping her tears. Asking for her name, she answers she is Teruko. They hear footsteps and are shocked by the sudden presence of a giant demon in the hallway. Tanjiro immediately deciphers him to be the master of the house; his scent was the strongest and covered a broad range of the building.
Somewhere else, Zenitsu wails about his certain death while the boy, Shoichi, simultaneously calls out for Teruko. Zenitsu pulls Shoichi and tells him they should go outside, but Shoichi turns around and reprimands him for his cowardice. Zenitsu is hurt by his words and argues that children should not be involved in this situation. They make their way down the hall and through doors, but fail to find the entrance. Opening a particular set of doors, Zenitsu comes face-to-face with an individual wearing a boar hide mask. Zenitsu calls him a monster, and the individual runs out of the room and rushes through a hallway.
A Demon Slayer with a boar mask crashes through.
Elsewhere, Tanjiro covers Teruko's mouth, informing her not to scream and to hide behind the shelves. The demon then speaks, annoyed at the number of people barging into his home and ranting about "my prey". Tanjiro faces the demon head-on, introduces himself as a Demon Slayer and the one that will defeat him. It ignores him and mutters about found children with "marechi" as Tanjiro goes to attack. However, the demon suddenly beats a drum and the entire room rotates, Tanjiro speculating the change to be a result of the demon's Blood Demon Art. He senses a new smell and the boar-masked individual crashes through the wall.
Tanjiro is astonished by the presence of the masked stranger. He notices the individual wields two Nichirin Swords and witnesses his assertion of using the Drum Demon as his stepping stone to become stronger and higher-ranked, rushing forward to attack him. The demon beats its drum and the room rotates with Tanjiro yelling at Teruko to grab hold of furniture as she tumbles. The dual-wielder uses Tanjiro as a support to launch off and attack the demon as Tanjiro tells him to not act recklessly.
The stranger tramples Teruko.
He is ignored and the Drum Demon hits another drum, shifting the room which results in the boar-masked individual landing and stepping on Teruko, paying no mind to her cries and expressing enjoyment and interest in the motion of the room. Tanjiro throws the stranger off of her and hugs Teruko, angry over his lack of concern for a little girl's well-being. The masked Demon Slayer laughs and begins attacking him, praising Tanjiro for being capable of throwing him. Tanjiro shouts at him to stop as the demon is right in front of them, but he states that he didn't care and continues his assault.
Tanjiro and the stranger evade Kyogai's three slashes.
The Drum Demon suddenly hits a different drum, resulting in three quick slashes cutting the floor and interrupting the scuffle between the two Demon Slayers. Tanjiro comments on the shape of the slashes looking like claw marks, but his thoughts are cut off by the demon consecutively hitting multiple drums and rotating the room once again. He starts understanding how the movement corresponds to each drum that is hit, but he and Teruko are transported to another room before he can react.
Kiyoshi uses the tsuzumi.
Tanjiro questions the sudden change, as he didn't hear Kyogai hit a drum which could've possibly allowed for him and Teruko to move. He starts analyzing his surroundings and finds a dead body, in which the Demon Slayer quickly ushers Teruko in the other direction before she sees it. Tanjiro then smells a unique scent of blood and he opens a set of door, discovering the siblings' oldest brother Kiyoshi right before he hits a drum.
In another section of the house, Zenitsu walks while holding Shoichi's hand. Shoichi says his name and Zenitsu yells, scolding him for surprising him. The boy tells the Demon Slayer how he feels unsafe around him, especially considering how frightened Zenitsu was. He profusely apologizes and tells him that they should stay quiet to avoid being attacked by demons, just as one crawls from under the mansion's foundations and appears in front of them.
Zenitsu begging for Shoichi to run away.
Zenitsu immediately yells at the appearance of the demon, desperately telling it to stay back and that neither he nor Shoichi would taste good as they run away. It responds that he would not know how they'd taste if he didn't try, proceeding to chase and attack them. As they turn into a room, the demon tries to use its long tongue to grab them, missing and hitting a pot instead. With the room being a dead end and their exit blocked, Zenitsu begins begging for Shoichi to run away, though the boy does not deem it a wise decision. The Demon Slayer berates himself for being a coward and tries to find the courage to help save Shoichi.
As the demon enters the room, it threatens to devour his brain through his ear. This finally causes Zenitsu to become overwhelmed with fear and lose consciousness. As he slumps to the ground, Shoichi shakes him to get his attention but is shocked to see him genuinely asleep. The demon becomes confused seeing the unusual situation but does not dwell further, extending its tongue to grab Shoichi.
Zenitsu kills the Tongue Demon.
Suddenly, the demon's tongue is cut and Zenitsu stands up. As Shoichi and the demon watch in confusion, Zenitsu bows down and begins to breathe. He uses the Thunder Breathing, First Form: Thunderclap and Flash to decapitate the demon in an instant. Shoichi gapes in shock as Zenitsu quickly wakes up and screams at the sight of the dead demon's head rolling next to him. The confused Demon Slayer misunderstands the situation and expresses extreme gratitude towards Shoichi for "saving" the pair, telling him he should've let him know earlier that he was so strong. The boy is at a loss for words and decides not to say anything, telling Zenitsu they should go on.
The Horned Demon discovers the stranger.
In a hallway of the house, the boar-masked Demon Slayer runs through, annoyed by the Drum Demon blowing him away despite his attempt to hunt it down and the inconvenience of the hallway's structure. A hand suddenly appears and tries to grab him, but the swordsman ducks and faces a heavy-set demon, who praises his mobility despite being human and how he would be worthy meat. Without hesitation, the Demon Slayer jumps straight at the demon and effortlessly cuts off its arms, using his self-taught Beast Breathing, Third Fang: Devour to decapitate it. He then uses the body as a springboard and continues his way throughout the mansion, yelling "Comin' Through!"
The Drum Demon, alone in a room, mutters to himself about "marechi", stating that the power and energy given by eating humans with this blood equivalent to devouring a hundred humans. He tells himself that he needs to eat more of the rare-blooded humans in order to return to his position in the Twelve Kizuki, before rolling his right eye to reveal a mark over his former rank, Lower Rank Six.
Kyogai has his position from the Twelve Kizuki revoked.
The Drum Demon thinks back to his time as Lower Six of the Twelve Kizuki. He recalls gradually reaching his limit and becoming unable to devour more humans. One day, Muzan Kibutsuji arrived at the mansion and addressed his weakening appetite, revealing his name as Kyogai. The demon quickly asked for another chance but has his engraved eye slashed by Muzan, who became angry at his physical limit reached and stripped the Drum Demon of his position. Kyogai recalls when he had first received Muzan's blood and how he initially thought he could endlessly gain strength, only to be mistaken.
Tanjiro introducing himself to Kiyoshi
After finding Kiyoshi, Teruko runs to him as they greet each other with tears of relief. Tanjiro introduces himself as a Demon Slayer and treats Kiyoshi's wounds with medicine given to him by Sakonji Urokodaki. When asked what had happened, Kiyoshi describes how Kyogai kidnapped and tried to devour him, but was interrupted by the presence of two more demons in the mansion. The three began a scuffle, arguing over who would be the one to eat Kiyoshi, with the skirmish resulting in Kyogai's back drum being pulled out in the process. The young boy mentions how he used the drum to stay alive so far, beating it to change the rooms and avoid ambushes. Tanjiro mentions "marechi" and Kiyoshi recalls that the demon did in fact refer to him as that. Tanjiro's Kasugai Crow appears and details the meaning of "marechi": demons favored humans with this blood as they hold nutrition equal to about fifty to a hundred people and are considered a great feast.
Tanjiro suddenly hears someone approaching, Kyogai himself. Tanjiro informs the children he must leave the room to battle him and instructs the siblings to use the drum to escape, reassuring them that he was here to defeat the demon and would return. The two children nod, and he praises them for their mental fortitude as he dashes out of the room, as Kyogai peers in looking for his prey. At his signal, Tanjiro dashes out of the room and Kiyoshi beats the drum, placing themselves out of harm's way. The demon angrily refers to Tanjiro as a pest, beating the drum on his stomach twice and turning the room upside-down. Kyogai beats again and the invisible slashes nearly hit Tanjiro. The Demon Slayer begins analyzing the drums and corresponding movements but the demon beats faster, disorienting him.
Tanjiro encouraging himself.
Tanjiro recalls that Tamayo had treated his wounds after his previous battle but remains injured, wondering if he can win in his condition. He notes being in constant pain since the battle and it was exacerbated when he met Zenitsu and pulled him off the woman, and now, his additional lack of balance threatens to get him sliced by Kyogai's attack. He thinks back to Sakonji's advice, who told him that Water Breathing is extremely versatile having ten forms. Though he realizes he can still fight, he tries to find his spirit to continue and thinks back to Zenitsu's whining that "a broken Tanjiro won't do!", annoying him.
Steeling his resolve, Tanjiro prepares to face Kyogai head-on, taking a stance before the demon and motivating himself to fight.
Tanjiro struggling against Kyogai's waves of attacks.
Despite his injured state, Tanjiro tries to motivate himself to continue fighting. Nonetheless, Kyogai's attacks continue to nearly kill him at every moment, forcing him to think of a strategy. As he beats his drums, the demon remembers when someone had admonished his writing for being poorly written, criticizing his work and claiming he should give up. Insulting him for never going outside and always playing indoors, they step on Kyogai's sheet music while walking away. Angered and hiding that he was a demon, Kyogai unleashes his slashes and cuts the man to pieces.
After recalling this memory, Kyogai is furious and increasing his tempo faster than ever. Tanjiro has trouble dodging all of his attacks and notices the number of slashes had increased to five per attack. The movement of the room causes some of Kyogai's writings to fall on the ground which Tanjiro notices, but he avoids stepping on them which surprises Kyogai.
Tanjiro uses Ninth Form: Splashing Water Flow, Turbulent.
The Demon Slayer sees that short breathes allows him to gain strength without injuring himself and begins to smell a mold-like scent before incoming attacks, making more fluid and calculated movements as he uses Water Breathing, Ninth Form: Splashing Water Flow, Turbulent to decrease the distance between the two. He detects the Opening Thread: right before he decapitates Kyogai, Tanjiro tells him his Blood Demon Art is amazing, before finally striking the demon.
A cat arrives to collect Kyogai's blood.
Tanjiro accidentally breathes heavily after defeating the demon, hurting him greatly, but he continues telling himself that he is the eldest son and must pull through somehow. Kyogai's disintegrating head asks him if he really thought his Blood Demon Art was good, and Tanjiro reassures that he did, though he adds that he cannot be forgiven for killing humans. He then takes out a syringe-like knife developed by Yushiro and extracts the blood from Kyogai's body, giving it to a cat wearing a talisman for Tamayo's research. Kyogai's head, as he disintegrates to ash, cries about how Tanjiro saw the value in both his writing and drumming, at peace that someone had admired them.
While making his way through the corridor, Tanjiro opens the door to where he left Teruko and Kiyoshi and is greeted by a mass of objects thrown at him. The siblings apologize; they mentioned how they were scared since the drum had disappeared and didn't have a way to defend themselves in case of an attack. The trio make their way out of the house, but just as they make it to the entrance, Tanjiro smells blood. He runs out to see a crying Shoichi as the masked Demon Slayer beats a wounded Zenitsu, crouching over Nezuko's box after he stated it was more important than his life.
Zenitsu lies unconscious on the ground as he remarks about his sharp sense of hearing: he is even capable of hearing the conversations of other people while asleep, causing people to consider him creepy. He notes that Kyogai's sound has disappeared, meaning he had been defeated by Tanjiro and that the latter was making his way back outside. Shoichi appears above Zenitsu and with tears in his eyes, explains how they made it out of the house through falling out of a window, thanking him for making sure he remained unharmed. Zenitsu discovers blood on the back of his head and panics, but is interrupted by the boar headed swordsman smashing his way out of the house.
The assailant attacking Zenitsu.
Zenitsu remembers and reveals the swordsman as the fifth Final Selection survivor, the fastest individual to make it up and down Mount Fujikasane before the other survivors. The swordsman sees Nezuko's box and senses a demon, running to attack it only to be cut off by Zenitsu, who defends the item that Tanjiro stated was more important than his own life. When the stranger informs him of what is inside, he admits that he knew there was a demon inside ever since he met Tanjiro, but didn't question it as Tanjiro had such a pure sound coming from him that made Zenitsu deem him trustworthy. All his life, his hearing has enabled him to detect the sounds of a living thing and in turn, helped him determine their character. Being lied to and deceived all his life, he has determined that Tanjior has a good reason for keeping a demon as a Demon Slayer.
He refuses to let the assailant harm the box without first figuring out what its contents were from Tanjiro himself. The boar-masked Demon Slayer acknowledges Zenitsu's courage and begins to beat him up, just as Tanjiro arrives with Kiyoshi and Teruko. The former expresses great shock at the sight, as the way Zenitsu defended the box reminded him of how Nezuko tried to protect Rokuta during their family's massacre. Before the assailant can harm him and Nezuko even further, Tanjiro lunges at him and lands a hard punch on his ribs, breaking them. He lectures the assailant on how Zenitsu wouldn't reciprocate his attacks as it was against the code of conduct for Demon Slayers to attack each other.
The assailant's face is revealed.
The assailant decides to instead duel with his bare hands rather than with his blades, while Tanjiro desperately tries to talk it out. He notices how the assailant's attacks are very close to the ground, similar to fighting a beast. He also tries to attack lower, but the assailant dodges and hits him using his extreme flexibility, laughing and showing off his flexibility by bending backwards and putting his face between his legs. Tanjiro tries to advise him not to do so since his bones were broken, but the assailant ignores him. Angered the stranger is never acknowledge future consequences, Tanjiro headbutt his attacker to calm him down. The assailant staggers backwards and his mask falls off, revealing a rather feminine face. The stranger asks if they take issue with his appearance.
Inosuke falls unconscious
Tanjiro and Zenitsu note the drastic contrast between the unknown Demon Slayer's face and muscular physique. The former states he has no issue with his face and does not want to attack further, but the stranger demands he headbutt him again to his liking. He declares his names is Inosuke Hashibira, though when Tanjiro asks for how it is spelled, Inosuke does not know. Suddenly, he faints and falls over backwards from the impact with Tanjiro's forehead. Though Zenitsu becomes worried he is dead, Tanjiro surmises it is because he suffered a concussion from receiving a strong headbutt, with Zenitsu noting that his head is not even bruised.
Inosuke wakes up some time later and loudly jumps up wanting to fight, scaring Zenitsu. He catches sight of the group and Tanjiro explains they’re burying the dead, requesting for Inosuke to help out. He is unenthusiastic about the work and demands he fight him instead. Somewhat dismayed, Tanjiro humorously provokes him by replying that he had probably felt too much pain to aid in such an exhausting task, telling him to rest and leave the burden to the more capable people. An enraged Inosuke takes on the challenge, quickening the pace of the burial.
As they descend the mountain, Zenitsu tries to force Shoichi to come with him, believing him to be strong and capable enough to protect him. Tanjiro pushes him off the reluctant child and reprimands him while his Kasugai Crow gives Kiyoshi an small bag containing wisteria, meant to prevent any other attacks from demons hungry for his marechi. The Demon Slayers bid farewell to the trio of siblings and continue with their mission.
As Tanjiro's crow leads the trio, Tanjiro strikes up a conversation with Inosuke and asks about his past growing up on a mountain. The latter reveals his lack of a direct family and explains his only enjoyment involves battles over strength, describing how he encountered and fought Demon Slayers who entered Mount Fujikasane that later told him about demons and Final Selection, which eventually led to him attending it despite not receiving instruction from a cultivator. When he claims he will defeat Tanjiro, the latter tries to properly introduce himself as "Tanjiro Kamado" which Inosuke butchers into "Gonpachiro Kamaboko".
The trio are welcomed to the wisteria-crested house.
As night falls, the three Demon Slayers find themselves before a house with a Wisteria crest painted on its door, with the Kasugai crow telling them they can rest. An old lady comes out and greets the trio, leading them into the house. Inosuke is immediately rude to her, poking her hair. Tanjiro’s crow explains how the house is run by a family who was protected from an attack by the Demon Slayers. Since then, they have provided food and shelter in their home for Demon Slayers without need for payment, identified by the Wisteria crest on their houses.
Zenitsu becomes enraged with Tanjiro.
A doctor is summoned to assess the trio's injuries and he notes that all of them have broken ribs. Later as the three eat, Tanjiro and Zenitsu are disgusted by Inosuke's lack of manners; he then tries to irritate Tanjiro by taking from his bowl but is unsuccessful when he is met by his kindness instead. As they prepare to rest, Zenitsu takes the time to ask Tanjiro on why he carries a demon. Stunned by Zenitsu knowing, he calls him a good person. Somewhat flattered, he hears as Tanjiro notes how he smelled good and strong, though Zenitsu still takes issue with Tanjiro forcing him to leave Shoichi.
Suddenly, Nezuko's box in the corner begins to move, frightening Zenitsu into hysterics. As the door open, Zenitsu panics even further and begs for protection. Nezuko exits and stands up, causing Zenitsu to become speechless at seeing her appearance. Tanjiro tries to introduce her as his sister but Zenitsu instead admonishes him for carrying a cute girl with him throughout all the suffering he had been forced to endure. He yells that the Demon Slayers is not something joined and taken lightly and attempts to punish Tanjiro.

Despite Zenitsu's initial anger at learning he had been carrying a girl, Tanjiro becomes confused to now see him grovelling before him, seemingly to get closer to Nezuko. He is additionally troubled by Inosuke randomly headbutting him.
Inosuke confused at Hisa's good luck ritual.
After their injuries have healed. the Demon Slayers are given an urgent directive to travel to Mount Natagumo as quickly as possible. Just as they are about to set off, they thank Hisa for her kindness and she offers to strike sparks for good luck on their journey. Confused by her intentions, Inosuke loudly questions her and calls her a hag, causing Zenitsu and Tanjiro to frantically intervene while questioning his intelligence. As they run off, Inosuke overhears the women wish them a good fortune and prideful lives, causing him to gaze at her in confusion.
He calls out to the boys running in front of him and asks for the meaning behind her words. While Zenitsu is shocked at Inosuke's cluelessness, Tanjiro gives an explanation and states she is praying for their safety. Despite this, Inosuke then begins to question his explanation; annoyed, Tanjiro decides to speed up and avoid talking.
By the time they've arrived at Mount Natagumo, night time has fallen. They prepare to investigate the mountain, but are held back when Zenitsu becomes frightened and is reluctant to climb the mountain. A sudden scent emerges, and Tanjiro discovers an injured Demon Slayer begging for help down the path. Tanjiro and Inosuke run towards him but he suddenly lifted into the air, and pulled back into the mountain screaming, "I was still connected!". Tanjiro proclaims he's going to investigate the mountain but Inosuke declares he will lead as Tanjiro "trembles in fear and follows behind."
While climbing the mountain, the two notice an unusual amount of spiderwebs. Tanjiro talks to Inosuke and thanks him for bravely accompanying him to investigate, saying how the twisted scent of the mountain had scared him but when Inosuke agreed to go, he was able to overcome his fear. Inosuke ponders on what he means, and is reminded of the kind actions of the old lady.
The female demon appears.
Tanjiro notices someone hidden in the woods and approach him, where Tanjiro introduce himself as a Mizunoto and has arrived as backup. The boy hiding in the brush angrily voices his distaste, hoping for a Hashira instead, to which Inosuke cuts off by punching him in the face. He angrily yells at the unknown swordsman and demands a summary of what has occurred on the mountain. He tells the two that a Kasugai crow had brought an order to investigate the mountain and ten Corps members had come as group. However. not long after arriving, they had began to each other without warning. He turns his head as a dead Demon Slayer then appears before the boys, revealing that he is being controlled like a puppet by a mysterious female demon.
Shinobu and Giyu listening to Kagaya's orders.
At an unknown location, the crow of one of the Demon Slayer has haggardly arrived to give word of what had occurred on the mountain. After commending the crow for returning home, a man deducts that it has to be the work of one of the Twelve Kizuki and decides to dispatch the Hashira to assist. Behind him are Giyu Tomioka and Shinobu, who acknowledge his wishes. Shinobu curiously wonders if demons and humans could ever get along, only for Giyu to state that as long as demons eat them, peace is impossible.
While sitting on the footpath to the mountain, Zenitsu wonders if Tanjiro and Inosuke hate him, believing that if they were his friends, they would encourage him to join them and he would travelled along. Instead, they entered Mount Natagumo without hesitating or looking back at him. He is then joined by his sparrow.
Trying to speak to him, the little bird tries to encourage him, saying that sulking does nothing good and asking him to help his friends. However, Zenitsu does not understand his message, instead envying the bird for not being able to understand humanity. Aggravated, the sparrow begins biting Zenitsu's hand, who starts scolding him for not acting cute and citing Nezuko as an example. He then realizes that Nezuko is with Tanjiro, now inside Mount Natagumo's forests, and frantically runs into the woods in search of her.
Meanwhile, within the mountain, Inosuke and Tanjiro have engaged in combat with their fellow Demon Slayers. Inosuke belittles their intelligence for attacking them until Tanjiro realizes from their strange movements that they are being controlled by an unseen force. Inosuke announces that he is going to "cut them up" before Tanjiro yells at him to avoid doing so, saying that they shouldn't defile their comrades' corpses. Angered by his words, Inosuke faces Tanjiro and headbutts him saying that he doesn't like to be told what to do.
Tanjiro and Inosuke protect Murata.
In the midst of the chaos, Murata, the swordsman they discovered on the mountain, is suddenly attacked by two Demon Slayers. The two boys rush forward to protect him and Tanjiro discovers an unsettling sweet smell behind him. He slashes near the Demon Slayer's back and the body falls, having sliced nearly invisible threads. He yells his discovery to Inosuke and tells him to quickly free the controlled swordsman from the threads, doing so by leaping over them and cutting rapidly, freeing their bodies from control.
Tanjiro discovers small spiders threads trying to gain control of his arms.
Tanjiro tries to search for the demon responsible but is distracted by a foul odor. He discovers small spiders spinning threads trying to gain control of his arms. He frees himself and discovers that they are responsible for controlling the Corps members, watching as the Demon Slayer bodies they freed standing upright once again. Seeing that cutting the threads is pointless and further repulsed by the scent in the wind, Tanjiro tries to figure out a plan. Inosuke tries killing the spiders but they prove too numerous to be effective.
Inosuke locates a demon using Spatial Awareness.
In the middle of his instruction, a boy appears from above and warns that the Demon Slayers to not disturb his family. Tanjiro notices the young boy to be balancing on threads, before the boys makes the threat that "Mother" will kill them. Inosuke leaps up into the air and slashes at the boy but misses, cursing him as he falls back down. Tanjiro yells at Inosuke to not mind the boy and find the demon controlling the spiders. In response, Inosuke pierces his blades into the ground and crouches down to preform his Beast Breathing, Seventh Form: Spatial Awareness: it is revealed that due to Inosuke growing up in the mountains, he has developed an extremely fine sense of touch, which, when coupled with his Beast Breathing, enables him to sense something's presence through the air. He is able to locate the presence of a female demon in the distance.
Alone and standing atop his threads, the boy gazes up at the moon as he eerily chants that he will not allow anyone to cut bonds of his family, drawing a web in his hands.
Tanjiro grabbing Inosuke
Murata calls for Tanjiro and Inosuke to leave him, though Inosuke insults him for his earlier cowardice. Somewhat annoyed by his statement, Murata proclaims that he is still a member of the Demon Slayer Corps and believes he can handle the Demon Slayers, now knowing of their simple movements and knowledge about the spiders and threads. Thankful, Tanjiro grabs Inosuke and they venture deeper into the jungle, though the latter is angry for being unable to hit Murata for insulting him.
As they run, Tanjiro chides Inosuke for his behaviour, who only claims that Murata had insulted him, calling his partner "Monjiro". Suddenly, they encounter a female Demon Slayer who is entangled with threads, who cries out to summon someone of higher rank as she holds the bodies of her teammates.
Elsewhere in the forest, a female demon is seen giggling on a rock with excitement as the Demon Slayers get closer to her, since the threads in her closer proximity are thicker and stronger. Suddenly, a voice addresses her as "Mother"; she turns to see the pale boy, Rui, and becomes nervous. Rui asks if she can win; when she asks if he believes she is taking too long, the boy only warns her that if she doesn't hasten her efforts, he would tell "Father".
A controlled Ozaki swinging her katana at Tanjiro and Inosuke.
Frightened, Mother frantically reassures him that she can protect him. Having received his answer, Rui ominously tells her to hurry before leaving. With a newfound sense of urgency, Mother begins to control the Demon Slayers with more violent jerks. The female swordsman begins to quickly lunge and slash at the boys while her bones twist and crack in unnatural ways. Tanjiro dodges her attacks and sees two other Corps members: one of them pleading to be killed and put out of his misery due to the pain.
Without hesitation, Inosuke agrees and tries to attack them but is told to wait by Tanjiro. He begins to ponder on how to immobilize them without hurting them anymore then they already are. Tanjiro runs in the opposite direction as the female Demon Slayer gives chase, before he sprints and turns back quickly to grab and throw her into the air. The girl gets caught on a branch and remains tangled within the canopy of the tree.
Tanjiro restrains Ozaki.
Inosuke stays standing in disbelief and eagerly follows Tanjiro's lead; he grabs a nearby Corps member and successfully throws him into the tree where he stays tangled. He turns to face Tanjiro and tries to mock him by saying that is capable of doing anything that Tanjiro can do. In a comical response, Tanjiro apologizes to Inosuke for not watching what he was doing which angers him.
Seeing that her Demon Slayers are no longer able to move, Mother decides to use "that doll".
Tanjiro watches in horror as The Mother Spider Demon pulls on several threads at once and snap Ozaki's neck.
With one controlled Demon Slayer left to restrain, Inosuke moves in to finish the task, with Tanjiro asking that he be gentle. Suddenly, Mother pulls on several threads at once and snap the necks of her dolls, including the agonized man and the female Demon Slayer. Tanjiro is horrified and Inosuke becomes annoyed that all their efforts were futile in the end. Walking to the closest body of a comrade, Tanjiro silently releases his rage, which startles Inosuke greatly. He only tells his friend that they must continue and Inosuke quietly agrees.
Tanjiro and Inosuke encounter the "doll".
They travel quickly through the forest and approach the strong odor of a demon, however they begin to panic as they realize that it is a headless body being used as a puppet. Tanjiro attempts to formulate a plan to take down the puppet, however Inosuke charges forward and engages with the being. To his disadvantage, Inosuke sustains multiple slashes and unknowingly gets entangled by a spider's thread, panicking as the headless puppet prepares to pierce through him.
At that moment, Tanjiro quickly comes to Inosuke's defense and parries the puppet's attacks, he manages to push back the puppet and yells to Inosuke that they need to fight together in order to defeat it. In an angered protest, Inosuke calls him out saying "I won't let you embarrass me anymore!"
The puppet charges forward to attack, however the boys prepare their counterattack together, Tanjiro bends over to evade the attack and tells Inosuke to go over his back. He successfully slices both of the daggers from the puppet and leaps into the air off of Tanjiro's box, meanwhile Tanjiro uses the Water Breathing, Fourth Form: Striking Tide to demobilize the puppet by slashing its legs. As Inosuke descends from above, his jealousy at Tanjiro's skills and abilities builds up and he powerfully delivers the final blow to defeat the puppet demon.
Tanjiro is amazed by Inosuke's final cut but becomes stunned when Inosuke suddenly charges at him. Inosuke exclaims that "I can do anything you can do dummy!" and furiously throws him up into the air. Nearby in the forest, Mother sits defeated on her rock after her strongest doll was defeated. She upsettingly blames Rui for her defeat since he had threatened her to do well.
Tanjiro defeating the Mother Spider Demon.
As Tanjiro spots her from above and prepares to attack, Mother panics when trying to formulate a plan however she comes to realize that she will find freedom and peace in death. She holds out her arms and accepts her fate. Tanjiro notices the change in her demeanor and switches from using the Water Breathing, First Form: Water Surface Slash to Fifth Form: Blessed Rain After the Drought, giving the frightened demon a merciful death.
A second female demon watches Mother's abuse.
As she is beheaded, Mother notes that she feels as if she is being showered by a gentle rain. She experiences no pain whatsoever and she had never imagined her death to be so gentle. She then remembers when she had her eye injured by a hulking demon for seemingly no reason. Begging for mercy and unsure why he is angry, Rui coldly tells Mother it is her own fault for not realizing why.  Behind a tree, another demon watches the scene and laughs that "Dad's angry at Mom again!". As the giant demon grabs Mother, another female demon sees the abuse from high in the trees, watching with a cautious look.
Mother looks at Tanjiro's eyes and sees they bore only kindness and are practically transparent, not hiding anything by sympathy. She remarks that when she was human, someone must have looked at her eyes with the same kind expression, though she does not remember who and wonders where they may be now. As thanks for bringing her peace, Mother tells Tanjiro that the Twelve Kizuki are on the mountain.
Tanjiro becomes shocked and questions her final words. He realizes that the Twelve Kizuki contain high concentrations of Muzan Kibutsuji's blood and that he would need to collect it in order to create a cure for Nezuko. He suddenly remembers Inosuke and runs back to meet him. Inosuke asks if he had defeated the demon, which Tanjiro answers that he had. When asked if he is alright, Inosuke proudly claims he is fine and will soon have a head harder than him. However, Tanjiro is dismayed at the extent of Inosuke's wounds and is saddened at being unable to save his fellow Demon Slayers.
He looks back at Mother's final moments and how she smelled so strongly of fear and suffering, enough that she wished for death. Tanjiro questions the mountain's nature, wondering why the Twelve Kizuki are present and if a family of demons lives within the forests, since demons do not group up.
Son of the Spider Family appears from above.
Elsewhere in the forest, Zenitsu feels a pain in his hand while walking in the woods searching for Tanjiro and Inosuke. He is annoyed by the forest's stench and is additionally repulsed by the spiders' sound. Suddenly, something moves behind him and he demands it to stop, only to look down and see a giant spider with a human head. Horrified and confused, he sprints away and wonders if he is actually trapped within a nightmare due to his situation. He soon finds himself within a clear and finds threads strewn across the trees.
Hanging on them is a wooden house and attached to the threads are Demon Slayers transforming into spiders. Even more worried and now nauseous from the overwhelming smell, Zenitsu receives a bigger surprise when a giant spider demon emerges from within the suspended house. Zenitsu sprints away in fear but the demon unexpectedly tells he that he has already lost. Unwilling to talk to the giant spider, Zenitsu flatly denies what he had said only to be told to look at his hand.
To his shock, it appears bruised and swollen. The Spider Demon tells him that since he had been bitten by a spider, he will soon transform into one.
After revealing to Zenitsu that he has been poisoned and will begin to transform into a spider, the Spider Demon pulls out a pocket watch and begins to describe the different phases of his transformation. He explains that within a span of a few hours, Zenitsu's hands and feet will begin to tingle, the feelings of dizziness and nausea will set in, followed by the feeling of intense pain, until his body finally shrinks and he loses consciousness. When he awakens, he will find that his body would have finished transitioning into a demon spider.
Zenitsu becomes even more horrified as the spiders crawl around his feet. He dashes away while openly admitting that he is already aware that running away will not help his situation, and ends up climbing a nearby tree. Witnessing Zenitsu's episode of panic, the demon laughs at him and reassures him that he has nothing to fear, as once the Demon Slayer finishes his transformation, he will no longer have a mind of his own or any sense of emotions. In response to his taunt, Zenitsu rambles saying that he doesn't want any of that and subtly insults him by saying "I bet you don't have any friends! People must hate you!", leaving the Spider Demon glaring at him with spite.
Zenitsu says he loves his trainer.
As Zenitsu continues to cry about his fate, the situation is reminiscent of when he had climbed up a tree in the past. A voice can be heard sternly yelling at him to pull himself together, as Zenitsu squeals about his impending death if he continues to train. His trainer stubbornly calls him an idiot and tells him that training won't kill him, commanding him to get down from the tree at once. Zenitsu continues to wail, calling the old man "Gramps"; he cries out that he loves him, much to his trainer's surprise, and that he is eternally grateful for paying off his debt. Nonetheless, he believes himself to not be capable enough to be a Demon Slayer.
He rants about his inability to make progress, describing how he trains to the point of lacking sleep but never sees any fruit to his labor and eventually lets out his anger at his failure. As Gramps tries to calm Zenitsu and claims he truly possesses talent, a sudden bolt of lightning strikes Zenitsu. Gramps looks on in horror as Zenitsu finally falls from the tree with his new striking blonde hair.
Zenitsu remarks that he hates his lack of self faith; though he means to do good, he ends up getting scared and fleeing. He insists that he wants to change and become better, yelling out loud that he is working as hard as he can, but transforming into a monster now, he can no longer handle even more issues. The Spider Demon is confused at his opponent's weird rants, as the spiders crawl up the tree. Zenitsu yells at them to leave but discovers that clumps of his hair are falling out, since the demon had not mentioned it before hand. Fear finally causes Zenitsu to fall asleep, driving even more confusion to the Spider Demon, in disbelief he had been sent to kill his family.
The Son Spider Demon uses his Blood Demon Art.
As he falls off the tree to the forest floor, Zenitsu begins to breathe and preforms Thunder Breathing, First Form: Thunderclap and Flash to jump off the trunk and initiate his attack on the Spider Demon. In response to the sudden maneuver, the demon spews his Poison Sputum to try deter Zenitsu, but he is able to evade his attack midair.
As Zenitsu lands on the ground he immediately attempts to utilize First Form: Thunderclap and Flash but is swarmed by numerous spiders. He continuously dodges their attacks and tries to use his form but is constantly hounded by the acidic poison of the Spider Demon, who realizes to his amusement that Zenitsu is capable of only one form.
Zenitsu thinks back to when Gramps had encouraged him that it was alright to only know one form, though he notes that before encouraging him, he was furious since Thunder Breathing had six forms. He remembers when his trainer began to pound his head continually, explaining that when a sword is made, the steel is beaten till all impurities are removed to refine it. Though Zenitsu understands, he claims he is not made with steel but flesh. The Spider Demon, seeing him standing still without attacking, believes Zenitsu will soon fall.
Gramps motivates his student to master his one form; he may cry and run but he must never give up. He tells Zenitsu to believe that all his training, no matter how hellish, will eventually pay off. "Be rid of all your impurities. Become a blade that is stronger than anyone!"
As Zenitsu recalls Gramps's message to master even a single thing, the Spider Demon launches another Poison Sputum blob, nearly hitting his body and dissolving his haori. More of the demon's spiders appear and force Zenitsu on the defensive, who begins to feel the poison making his hands and feet numb. He realizes that the poison will soon cause him pain.
Zenitsu getting bullied by a fellow trainee.
He remembers a time in his past when he was berated by another unnamed student of Gramps. The boy angrily scolds Zenitsu for crying all day and wonders why he was still being taught the Thunder Breathing techniques. The student feels he is worth their trainer's time, unlike Zenitsu. When he tries to interject and explain Gramps' reasoning, the boy throws a peach in his face and tells him to stop calling their trainer "Gramps" as an act of familiar. He remarks that their trainer is a former Hashira, and as one of the most highly regarded men in the Demon Slayer Corps, he believes training Zenitsu to be a waste of time and angrily dismisses him.
Zenitsu remarks that being an orphan meant he had no one to give hope or believe in him. "No one dreamed of a future where I'd latch on to something and fulfill a dream." Be it being useful or protecting someone, no one had the expectations that he could succeed. No one except Gramps. He would scold him continuously, and whenever Zenitsu tried to run away, he was there to pull him back, and though he was at times harsh, Gramps never gave up on him.
Zenitsu uses Thunderclap and Flash, Sixfold.
The Spider Demon commands his spiders to inject Zenitsu with more poison; using their barbed tongues, they attempt to stab him but miss. Zenitsu suddenly vomits blood while moving to evade them, allowing the spiders to pile on him. Suddenly, the Demon Slayer grips his blade and the air begins to vibrate, causing the spiders to fall off of him. He uses Thunder Breathing, First Form: Thunderclap and Flash, Sixfold and speeds towards the Spider Demon, launching six powerful dashes before decapitating his opponent instantly.
As the demon dies, Zenitsu falls atop the house, satisfied that he had accomplished his dream of protecting people. He realizes that the time spent with Gramps was truly not wasted, but as the poison takes hold, he struggles to cling to life. He urges himself not to give up and uses his breathing to slow the circulation of the poison.  He fights to survive, unwilling to let Gramps or Tanjiro be disappointed.
Elsewhere in the forests, Tanjiro hears the sound of a lightning strike — Zenitsu's attack —  but becomes confused since he doesn't smell thunderclouds. Inosuke is not bothered to investigate while Tanjiro intends to. He tells Inosuke to descend the mountain but his friend vehemently denies being hurt, much to his confusion.
"Father" emerges to kill Tanjiro and Inosuke.
Suddenly, they hear a nearby splash across the river: a pale young demon. Inosuke immediately gives chase but the demon calls out to her father. Emerging from the forest, a giant humanoid Spider Demon appears, angrily demand the Demon Slayers stay away from his family. He throws a punch against the riverbed that knocks back Tanjiro and Inosuke from the sheer force.
Tanjiro attacks the Father Spider Demon.
Using Water Breathing, Second Form: Water Wheel, Tanjiro attempts to slash off Father's right arm but discovers his blade are unable to cut through his thick skin. The demon tries to punch him but has his left arm pinned by Inosuke, who is similarly unable to cut further than the surface. Father flings them away and charges towards Tanjiro, demanding they stay away from his family. Inosuke attempt to attack from behind but is spotted and punched away, hurtling into the river.
Tanjiro uses Water Breathing, Second Form: Improved, Lateral Water Wheel, cutting through a tree in front of him and causing it to land on the giant demon, pinning him and saving Inosuke. Seeing his chance, he prepares to using Water Breathing's Tenth Form to finish off the demon but Inosuke warns him to remain on guard, too weak from blood loss to intervene.
Father picks up the fallen tree and swings it into Tanjiro, causing his blade to become stuck. With the Demon Slayer neutralized, the Spider Demon flings him away into the forest. Startled, Inosuke calls out to "Kentaro" as he hurtles away. Tanjiro, believing Father to be the Twelve Kizuki demon, warns Inosuke of the danger and advises him to stay alive and wait for him, promising to be back.
Shinobu approaching Zenitsu.
Atop the suspended house, Zenitsu's condition worsens and he struggles to breathe, to the concern of the transformed Demon Slayers he rescued. As he apologizes to Nezuko, a butterfly appears to float above him and flutters down, revealed to be Shinobu. She gently asks if Zenitsu is alright but the Demon Slayer doesn't respond.
To stop himself from hitting the ground too quickly, Tanjiro uses Water Breathing, Second Form: Water Wheel, slowing his momentum to a full stop safely. As he composes himself, a scream is heard nearby; looking behind him, Tanjiro finds Rui cutting Daughter's face with a web in his hands, the threads coated in her blood. Rui, surprised to see him, asks what he is looking at for, claiming their situation isn't a show.
Daughter's face slashed by Rui.
Having stumbled into a conflict between Rui and Daughter, Tanjiro questions Rui on why he is harming his friend. To this, Rui claims they are closer than just a superficial friendship. They are a family and the current matter is only between him and his older sister, threatening to carve up Tanjiro for interrupting. Tanjiro remarks that all bonds are precious, not just family but even friendships and that not being blood related doesn't make it superficial. He states that while he can smell the scent of a strong bond, all he senses from him and Daughter is the smell of fear, hatred, and loathing.
He flatly declaring their bond fake, angering Rui. Entering the situation, a lone Demon Slayer spots him and deems the demon to be an easy kill. As Tanjiro wonders who he is, the swordsman warns him not to take his kill, thinking that slaying the "kid demon" will make his rank and pay go up. He remarks that most of his unit is now dead but slaying one demon should suffice. As he charges towards Rui, Tanjiro warns him to stop but the demon flings a web at him, slicing the Demon Slayer into several pieces.
Tanjiro stares in horror at Rui's swift movements and sees him glaring with pure rage, sensing his menacing aura. Rui furiously dares him to repeat his words, worrying Daughter. Tanjiro grips his blade as he realizes that he must defeat Rui before he is able to return to Inosuke's aid, then proceeds to stubbornly repeat that the ties between Rui and Daughter are fake.
Father evolves into a stronger form.
Elsewhere on the mountain, Inosuke can be seen hiding behind a tree while trying to formulate a plan to deal with Father. The tree is suddenly smashed with such power that Inosuke is forced to get up and run away, thinking to himself that he has find a solution in order to survive until Tanjiro returns. Once Inosuke realizes that he's starting to depend on Tanjiro's help, he becomes infuriated with himself and decides to attack Father head on. He tries to slice through the demon's arms, and uses his anger and frustration to successfully cut through.
He expresses his excitement and proclaims his newfound strength, while he gloats on his accomplishment he sees Father running away and becomes infuriated by his audacity. He gives chase and hunts the Spider Demon down to a nearby tree, and witnesses him begin to tremble, thinking that he is doing so out of fear. However, Father begins to molt from his body into a larger, more menacing form. Inosuke can only stare in paralyzed fear as the newly transformed demon lands down to face him again.
As the newly evolved demon towers menacingly over Inosuke, he remarks having never felt such pressure seeing an opponent. Believing he will die, he remembers Tanjiro's words to wait for his return. Trying to find the motivation to continue, he remembers when Hisa had told him to live his life with pride and wished him good fortune. Realizing he cannot lose now, he takes a stance and declares he is "Inosuke Hashibira of the Demon Slayer Corps", commanding the demon to face him.
Father immediately punches Inosuke so hard, he slams into several trees. The demon quickly approaches the downed Demon Slayer to finish him off, but Inosuke avoids the blow and leaps into the air to attack him from behind. He tries to slice the Spider Demon's neck by using his Beast Breathing, Third Fang: Devour but his blades break when trying to slice through the thick skin. Father becomes infuriated and once again slams Inosuke into another nearby tree, knocking the wind out of him.
Inosuke gets caught by the Father Spider Demon.
He picks Inosuke up by the throat and squeezes him, yelling once again for him to "stay away from my family." Inosuke refuses to succumb and uses his Beast Breathing, First Fang: Pierce as a last ditch effort to escape, but his broken weapons fail to damage the giant Spider Demon. Father squeezes even harder and crushes his opponent's throat, and life begins to flash before his eyes. Inosuke recalls a memory of a woman coated in blood apologizing to him as an infant, and he also envisions the faces of Tanjiro, Zenitsu, and Hisa.
Giyu arrives, saving Inosuke from Father.
As he wonders who the woman is, blood begins to pour from his mask. Father's arm is suddenly sliced off and Inosuke drops to the floor. The Spider Demon squeals in shock as Giyu Tomioka enters the battle. Father quickly regenerates his arm and sprints towards Giyu with extraordinary speed, but the Hashira preforms the Water Breathing, Fourth Form: Striking Tide and dismembers the demon instantly. Inosuke gets up from the floor and stares at Giyu with admiration, becoming excited trying to figure out who he is as the latter nonchalantly proceeds to sheath his sword with the process of Nōtō (納刀, nōtō?).
Elsewhere on the mountain, Rui eerily reveals his intentions to slowly torture Tanjiro to death, but reassures him that if he takes back what he said, he will not prolong his demise. Despite sustaining several wounds, Tanjiro stubbornly refuses to take back his words and goes on to justify his reasons saying that Rui is the one that's in the wrong. Tanjiro braces himself and smells out the threads to avoid them as he approaches Rui.
He uses the Water Breathing, First Form: Water Surface Slash to slice through Rui's threads, but looks on in shock as his blade is split into two pieces by the thread.
Giyu ties Inosuke up in a tree.
After defeating Father of the Spider Family, Giyu is confronted by the Demon Slayer he had just saved. Seeing he has killed a Twelve Kizuki demon, Inosuke demands that Giyu fight him so that he can defeat him and rise up through the ranks. The uninterested Hashira simple tells him to go back to training, angering Inosuke; Giyu also mentions that the demon was not a member of the Twelve Kizuki while unbundling some rope.
Inosuke quickly retorts his statement, claiming he was right about not believing the demon was of the Twelve Kizuki and only repeated what Tanjiro had said, but he suddenly finds himself tied up in a tree. Stunned by his immense speed, he tries to call out to Giyu, who only tells him to stay out of battle if he doesn't recognize his own injuries. Inosuke yells out that he cannot hear him but the Hashira has already left him alone.
Nezuko protecting Tanjiro from threads
As he tries to dodge the thread that sliced his sword in two, Tanjiro sustains a long cut along his face. Shocked to see that the threads are even stronger than Father's body, he apologizes to Sakonji and Haganezuka. Rui then manipulates more to surround the Demon Slayer and close around him, as Tanjiro struggles to move away, remarking that the threads seem to be alive. Before he can get hit, Nezuko appears in front of him and takes the brunt of the attack, enduring numerous cuts throughout her body. Tanjiro looks on in horror as Nezuko bleeds from her wounds, and he quickly carries her away to safety.
Seeing her sudden appearance from the box, Daughter surmises that she is a demon. As Tanjiro apologizes to her for getting herself injured, Rui begins to tremble and points to Nezuko, asking if they are siblings. Tanjiro angrily answers that it doesn't matter if they are, examining the severity of her injuries. As the demon realizes that he has witnessed siblings protecting one another, much to Daughter's worry, he declares Nezuko's actions as a bond between family and something now he wants for himself. Sensing his sudden change in demeanor, Daughter tries to claim that she is his sister and begs him not to abandon her.
Suddenly, Rui lashes out and releases several threads from his fingers, slicing the demon to pieces along with several distant trees. He angrily claims that none of his family had ever fulfilled their roles as the dismembered Daughter states that even he recognized her as a sister at some point. When she asks for a chance to make up for her mistakes, Rui tells her to kill the remaining Demon Slayers on the mountain, willing to forgive her if she does. Daughter picks up her head and runs away. Now left alone with Tanjiro and Nezuko, Rui begins to strike a deal with the siblings.
He informs the two of how their bond had made him shiver, but despite the fact that it might break his heart, he would still have to kill them. Rui then goes on to inform them that the only way that he will spare them would be if Tanjiro handed Nezuko over to him. Enraged by his audacity, Tanjiro holds Nezuko tightly and angrily proclaims that he will never hand her over, claiming that she has her own feelings and free will to choose.
Rui reveals his mark as a Twelve Kizuki.
Rui responds to his claims by stating that he will use fear to forcefully form a bond with her, which infuriates Tanjiro even more. Again, Tanjiro angrily yells that he will never hand Nezuko over to him and that he will cut off Rui's head before she is taken from him. Realizing that Tanjiro will not give up easily, Rui claims that he has no choice but kill him and take Nezuko by force. He acknowledges his fighting spirit and pulls his hair to the side to hauntingly reveal that he is Lower Five of the Twelve Kizuki.
Rui recounts his belief of what the father and mother's roles are in a family, stating that the parents protect the children, and the older children protect the youngest, even with their lives. He adds that people who do not fulfill their roles in life are not worthy of living and informs Tanjiro that his sole role in life is to give up his sister or die, because he cannot win against him.
Rui kidnaps Nezuko and holds her hostage.
As Tanjiro contemplates a plan in order to defeat Rui, the demon becomes annoyed by his look of determination and wonders if he believes he has a chance of killing him; he uses his threads to capture Nezuko from behind Tanjiro and proceeds to hold her hostage. Desperate to save his sister, Tanjiro charges at Rui and demands that she is released, but as the demon begins to spindle more threads, Nezuko unexpectedly claws at his face, forcing him to release her. Lower Five launches threads at his opponent but Tanjiro flips back to avoid Rui's attack, only to end up losing sight of Nezuko.
As he looks around to locate her, a splash of blood falls onto his face and he looks up in horror to see his sister, profusely bleeding and strung up in the demon's threads. Rui calmly demands that Tanjiro stop his screaming since as a demon, Nezuko won't die. However, he believes she must accept her new role and decides he will let her bleed, adding that if she still doesn't obey him, he can leave her to burn when the sun rises. Despite his anger, Tanjiro regains control of his emotions and concentrates his breathing.
Tanjiro is trapped by Rui's Blood Demon Art, Cutting Thread Cage.
When he looks into the sky, Rui notices that Nezuko has lost consciousness and senses an "odd feeling" resonating from Nezuko, different to normal demons. Attacking the Lower Rank once again, Tanjiro performs the Total Concentration: Water Breathing, Tenth Form: Constant Flux to charge at Rui. Using increasingly powerful slashes by building up power with each swing, he successfully cuts the threads using his broken blade, catching Rui off guard. However, the demon is amused to think Tanjiro had believed he was using his strongest threads and infuses his blood into new ones, casting Blood Demon Art: Cutting Thread Cage in order to quickly end Tanjiro's life.
Tanjiro smells the immense danger coming from the unavoidable attack and believes he is going to die, unable to build up the power to cut through. Suddenly, his life begin to flash before his eyes. As the many moments of his life flood before him, Tanjiro recollects the theory that he is being given a chance to search through his memories to find a method to escape. At that moment, he remembers a memory from his childhood in which he played with Nezuko as their father watches them, before telling Tanjiro to control his breathing and "become like Hinokami."
Tanjuro explains the Hinokami Kagura Dance to Tanjiro.
On a cold wintery night, a young Tanjiro watches with his mother as his father performs a ceremonial kagura. Kie tells him that as their family works with fire, to keep themselves safe, they offer a dance and prayers to Hinokami, the fire god, at the start of each year. Tanjiro watches his father intently, looking at his attire and movements. In another time, he asks his father on how he could perform for so long in the cold, remarking his lungs could freeze.
Tanjuro tells he there is a special way of breathing that doesn't allow him to tire no matter how much he moves. If he can learn it, he'll be fine even in the cold and he could dancer forever. His father then makes him promise to wear his earrings when he performs the kagura, and to always wear them so they are not lost.
After seeing his memories, Tanjiro's Water Breathing ignites in fire as he uses Hinokami Kagura: Dance, slicing Rui's strongest threads before him. The demon instantly forms new ones in his path but Tanjiro pushes on and is determined to behead him, knowing that by switching to Hinokami Kagura from Water Breathing, he will reel from the exhaustion when he stops. He senses the Opening Thread but only his arm will reach him. He asks his father to forgive him as he closes in on Rui, believing that saving Nezuko can only be done if he sacrifices himself to kill the demon.
Nezuko uses Exploding Blood for the first time.
Nezuko, still strung in the threads, is visited by Kie, who asks her to wake up and tells her daughter she is now able. She tearfully tells her that if she doesn't act now, Tanjiro will die. Nezuko suddenly regains consciousness and stretches out her arm as she spots Rui and Tanjiro. Using Blood Demon Art: Exploding Blood, she wills her blood on the threads in Tanjiro's path to burn and destroys them, surprising Rui to see his attacks on fire. With Tanjiro's attack being countered by Rui, he had strung threads to kill him as he gets close, but Nezuko's blood stained on them has burned them away without harming Tanjiro.
His sword, containing a drop of Nezuko's blood, reaches Rui's neck, and despite the demon believing he won't be able to cut through, Nezuko's burning blood gives enough force for the blade to cut through, as Tanjiro declares that the bond between them won't be severed by anyone. With one final push, the Demon Slayer beheads Lower Five in a bright circle of flames.
After being dismissed by Rui, Daughter flees as she realizes her mistake of ruining the family; made up of demons who were all strangers to one another, they feared the Demon Slayers and wanted companions. Because he possessed all the abilities, Rui splits his powers amongst them, and since he was a favourite of Muzan, they agreed; his first act was to change their appearance to match his. It is also shown that despite her appearance, Mother was actually a young girl, who had only been recently been turned into a demon, thus she retained her human memories. She mourned her lost humanity and couldn't play her role sufficiently, which, along with failing to maintain her appearance, caused Rui to punish her.
Anyone who disobeyed him or failed to play their role was punished by Rui, through slashing them, taking away their intelligence, or leaving them in the sun. Daughter only cared about herself and dismissed the others as fools, but it is she who has made a mistake now. She recalls when she had told Rui that their mother and "older brother" have been defeated and asked him on what they should do with the Demon Slayers closing in. When Rui does not respond, she suggests that they should flee, unaware that her eyes have reverted to their original appearance. Notices this, Rui only glares at her with displeasure.
Daughter uses Acid Cocoon to trap Murata.
While wondering if Rui would eventually realize his goal to have a family is hopeless, she sees Murata, who notices her as well but is trapped in her Blood Demon Art, Acid Cocoon. He attempts to cut his way out, but the silk is too soft and durable. Daughter ominously tells him that the acid will first melt his clothes, before liquifying his body into her meal. Out of nowhere, Shinobu stands behind the demon and asks if she spins her silk from her palms. Shocked by her appearance, she fails to respond when Shinobu greets her and makes note of the moon's lovely appearance.
Daughter Spider Demon senses Shinobu's aura happen to be likes Rui's aura.
Daughter launches ropes of her silk but Shinobu evades the attack, surmising that the demon does want to befriend her. The demon comments that her attacker's strong aura is like Rui's, but instead, it feels cold and frightening, as if death is next to her. She then pleads for Shinobu's help, claiming that Rui is forcing her to act and if she crosses him, she will be punished. Shinobu seemingly pities her and responds that she will help if they can get along, but she must confirm something first. She asks the demon on how many people has she killed, to which Daughter answers she has killed five, worried over her intentions.
Shinobu states she sees hordes of cocoons in the trees.
The Hashira tells her not to lie since she knows she has killed 80. When Daughter denies this, she notes that she came from west of the mountain and saw hordes of cocoons, all with its captives dead, adding that she saw fourteen in one spot alone. Shinobu states she is not angry and simply wants an accurate number. When Daughter asks what good it is to be accurate, she answers it is so she can be punished and reborn to truly befriend her. She goes into graphic detail about how she will torture her; gouging her eyes, sliting her stomach, and pulling out her intestines so that she can be forgiven. The demon becomes horrified to hear this, and Shinobu taunts her by adding that as a demon, she won't have lasting wounds.
Shinobu uses Butterfly Dance: Caprice.
Daughter tries once more to trap her in silk, but Shinobu uses Insect Breathing, Butterfly Dance: Caprice and stabs her multiple times. She reaches her neck and sees she hasn't been beheaded, noticing Shinobu is too small to behead her. However, her heart rate climbs and she begins to bleed all throughout her body before slumping to the ground in pain. Shinobu tells the demon not to feel safe if she isn't beheaded, as there are those who use poison. She introduces herself as Shinobu Kocho, the Insect Hashira of the Demon Slayer Corps; she is the only one who cannot cut off a demon's head, but makes up with her usage of poison; she then offers a false apology to the dead demon because she cannot hear her anymore.
Shinobu frees Murata from the acidic cocoon.
Shinobu stabs the cocoon to free Murata, who emerges coughing and sputtering from his ordeal. She asks if he is alright, to which he responds he is fine, noting that she simply poked the cocoon with her blade to break it. Murata asks if it is safe to leave the demon unfinished, and Shinobu explains that the demon is dead due to her poison, made with wisteria and her chemistry expertise. She then comments that while his clothes have dissolved, his body is fine, causing Murata to cover himself in embarrassment.
After beheading Rui, the exhausted Tanjiro is relieved he has won, thanks to his father's help; despite not knowing if the kagura of his family would work, it has enabled him to save Nezuko. However, his vision is blurring, his ears are ringing, and his body is racked with pain, yet he realizes that Inosuke still needs him. He sees the unconscious Nezuko a distance away and begins to crawl towards her, unaware of Rui's body behind him. He then smells blood, instead of the scent of ash that is present when a demon dies.
Rui reveals he beheaded himself to avoid Tanjiro's attack.
Rui's body walks towards him as he reveals his head is attached to his threads, taunting him for believing he had killed him and revealing he had sliced off his own head to avoid his attack. Now planning to kill him and Nezuko, Rui remarks he has not been angry in a long time; Tanjiro attempts to catch his breath but is still too weak. The demon notes that Nezuko's flames only burned him and his threads, but is otherwise thankful he is alive, stating that now, he is so enraged, he can slice up the Demon Slayer without any regret.
As Tanjiro tries more desperately to regain his breathing, Lower Five uses Blood Demon Art: Murderous Eye Basket, surrounding him in a shrinking web of threads, and despite his efforts, he remains too exhausted to even pick up his blade. Before the web can close and kill him, Tanjiro is saved when Giyu intervenes, slicing the threads apart. As he wonders if the new figure is Zenitsu, Giyu commends him for holding on till his arrival, while Rui denounces the Demon Slayers as scum who continue to interfere with him.
Giyu defeats Rui after destroying his Blood Demon Art.
Using Blood Demon Art: Cutting Thread Rotation, the demon infuses his threads with blood and launches the spinning web at Giyu, who responds with Water Breathing, Eleventh Form: Dead Calm. As the web gets close, it suddenly disintegrates before hitting Giyu; shocked to see his strongest threads destroyed, he tries again but is easily decapitated by the Hashira. While Sakonji's Water Breathing only has ten forms, Giyu has developed an exclusive eleventh form based on a dead calm, when the sea has no waves and the still surface reflects like a mirror; when an attack get close, the form calms it into nothing.
Rui's severed head curses Giyu and threatens to kill him before killing Tanjiro and Nezuko, only to see the Demon Slayer embracing his sister. Stunned by the sight, he recalls when Mother had asked him what he wanted, but he could not answer at the time because he did not have his human memories; he created the Spider Family when he thought the memories would return if he felt a familial bond, realizing now that he had wanted to remember his parents.
Since birth, Rui had always been weak, so much so that walking was hard. One night, he was visited by Muzan, who transformed him into a demon to "save" him. His parents were upset to discover what had happened; while he became strong, he could no longer be out in the sunlight and was forced to feed on human flesh. They once found him after he had killed someone; Rui's father demanded to know what he had done while his mother cried in anguish. Previously, he had heard a story about a father who drowned saving his child from a river. He was touched and considered it an act of true parental love.
To him, dying to save your child was a parent fulfilling their role, before then questioning why his parents tried to kill him. Rui awoke to his father raising a knife to kill him, while his mother sobbed nearby. He fatally wounded them and sat outside, remarking that his mother's love was fake and that they weren't a real family. To his surprise, she apologized to Rui for not giving him a strong body despite giving him life, before dying. Upon hearing her last words, he remembered his father had said that he will die with him as well; in his anger, he failed to realize his father was willing to die and share his sin of killing someone.
It was then that Rui understood they truly had a strong family bond and he was the one to have just severed it. Muzan then appeared to comfort the young demon, stating that his parents were to blame because they could not accept what he became and telling him to be proud. Unable to bear the weight of his actions, Rui believed him, despite knowing that he was at fault.
Tanjiro comforts the dying Rui.
Even when he irrationally blamed his parents, he sorely missed them; creating his demonic family did not stop the feeling of emptiness, and because he was the strongest, no one in his family could truly protect him. As Giyu looks on, the demon's burning body falls short of reaching Tanjiro while recalling that the stronger he became, the less his human memories remained. In the end, all he could do was reach out to connections he lost and failed to recreate. Tanjiro senses the scent of sadness from his body and places his hand on him, Rui remarking it is as if warm sunlight is on him.
Rui is reunited with his parents, apologizing for his actions.
Having remembered his parents once more, he wishes he could apologize to them for something he accepted is his fault, but knows that by killing scores of people, he will go to Hell and doesn't deserve to be with them. In the afterlife, a hand comforts Rui and tells him that where he goes, they will go too. His father and mother appear, who tells him that even in Hell, they will go with him. As his appearance returns back into a human, Rui breaks down in tears and hugs them tightly, incessantly apologizing for his actions, as the fires of Hell consume the family; Lower Five finally fades into nothing.
Giyu steps on the demon's clothes and accosts Tanjiro for showing sympathy, stating that even when he looked like a child, he was still a centuries-old monster that ate people. Tanjiro retorts that to appease the spirits of those killed by demons and prevent more bloodshed, he will not hesitant to behead them, but he will not belittle the demons who regret their actions and suffer because of it, "Because demons were once human. Because they were human like me!", begging Giyu to move his foot. To Tanjiro, they are not ugly and worthless, but pitiful creatures who now exist as empty shells of their former selves.
Giyu then recognizes him and Nezuko, much to his surprise, before he then looks up to see something moving towards him. He swings his sword and blocks Shinobu's attempt to kill Nezuko. Surprised to see his actions, she recalls when Giyu had said that demons and humans cannot coexist, before saying his actions are why he is hated.
The girl from Final Selection leads the Kakushi.
After being treated and placed with the rest of the injured Demon Slayers, Zenitsu looks around to see masked figures quickly cleaning up the scene. He notices the girl leading them is from Final Selection, and she wears a similar hairpin to Shinobu. One man asks for where the wounded will go and she answers that they go to her place, the so-called Butterfly Mansion, before leaving to clear up any nearby demons to allow them to work in peace. The figures also find the tied up and unconscious Inosuke.
As Shinobu orders again for Giyu to move, he instead asks for why she said that everyone hates him, to Tanjiro and Shinobu's surprise. Shinobu slyly replies she was unaware he believed he was hated and apologizes for letting it slip, surprising Giyu and Tanjiro further at the unusual scene; she then tells the Demon Slayer he is guarding a demon and advises him to move away. Tanjiro states she is half-mistaken as the demon is in fact his younger sister, but Shinobu's response is offering to kill her with a gentle toxin, worrying him. Giyu speaks up and orders him to carry Nezuko and flee in spite of his wounds.
The girl stomps Tanjiro and Nezuko for escaping.
A grateful Tanjiro takes Nezuko in his arms, thanks the Hashira and runs away. Seeing this, Shinobu tells him that his actions are against the Corps' rules. Tanjiro grabs Nezuko's box as he runs through the forest, despite the immense pain his body is in. Nezuko soon wakes up as Tanjiro wonders if he will be forced to leave the Demon Slayer Corps as he knows they would not accept a Demon Slayer carrying a demon, let alone a sibling. Suddenly, the girl from earlier leaps from behind the trees and steps on his back, causing Tanjiro to fall and drop Nezuko; she raises her blade and tries to behead her but Tanjiro pulls her haori and causes her to miss. He calls for Nezuko to run away but is knocked unconscious by a swift kick to the head.
The girl pursues the fleeing demon but Nezuko shrinks down to make herself harder to hit; initially confused as to why she isn't fighting back, she sets aside her doubts and tries to kill her as she was taught. After restraining the Insect Hashira, Giyu is questioned on why he is acting against the rules by interfering with the slaying of a demon, Shinobu asking for him he explain himself. When she asks again, he replies it was because of something that happened two years ago, but she instead wonders if he is trying to bore her with a long-winded story to get back at her for saying he is hated by people, earning Giyu's ire.
Shinobu attempts to escape Giyuu's hold by deploying a blade in her shoe.
Shinobu deploys a blade in her shoe and attempts to escape his hold, but a Kasugai crow interrupts with an announcement, with her only barely missing his face. The crow gives the message that Tanjiro and Nezuko are to be taken back to their headquarters; the girl chasing Nezuko hears the message and asks her for her identity. Tanjiro is soon found by the masked people, who notes his severe wounds; one of them feels guilty for having to tie him up. These agents are known as Kakushi; the clean up brigade of the Corps in the aftermath of a battle, as most members lack the skill in swordsmanship.
As Tanjiro lies on the ground in a garden, still tied up and unconscious, a voice repeatedly orders him to wake up before yelling at him to do so. He looks up to see a group of swordsman looking at him, with the voice telling Tanjiro he is now in the presence of the Hashira.

Confused by his surroundings, what a Hashira is, and who are the people around him, Tanjiro's uncertainty is answered when Shinobu tells him he is at the Demon Slayer Corps Headquarters and will now be put on trial. Within the Corps exists the Hashira, the nine most skilled and powerful Demon Slayers in the organization. Whereas lower-ranked members die quickly and frequently, the Hashira provide stability within the Corps.
Flame Hashira Kyojuro Rengoku believes they can kill him to enact justice.
Flame Hashira Kyojuro Rengoku believes a trial is unnecessary; since protecting a demon is plainly against the rules, he advises them to kill Tanjiro and Nezuko summarily. Sound Hashira Tengen Uzui offers to do the task, promising to flamboyantly spray Tanjiro's blood with panache. On the other hand, Love Hashira Mitsuri Kanroji is against killing "such a cute kid" and refuses to act. While the Stone Hashira, Gyomei Himejima, pities the siblings for being born, Mist Hashira Muichiro Tokito is instead looking at the clouds above him, ignoring the situation. As the Hashira talk amongst themselves, Tanjiro scans his surrounds for Nezuko and wonders on the whereabouts of Zenitsu, Inosuke, and Murata.
One Hashira ignores him and wonders what they will do with Giyu; sitting the trees, Serpent Hashira Obanai Iguro recalls Shinobu stating that Giyu broke the Corps' rules, and he wonders on what punishment he should take, even becoming annoyed to see him standing freely. As Mitsuri comments on Obanai's demeanor, Giyu, the Water Hashira, ignores Obanai's threat, much to Mitsuri's additional excitement. Shinobu believes they can settle on a punishment later, given that Tanjiro came without a fight; she is more interested in questioning him; Tanjiro becomes dismayed to see Giyu is now in trouble because of him.
Shinobu giving Tanjiro water to ease his pain.
Still injured, he begins to cough as he explains himself and is provided water with an additional painkiller by Shinobu. He states that his sister was transformed into a demon but that she has not eaten human flesh, claiming that she won't or ever will. Obanai refutes him, believing that Tanjiro is biased to protect his sister, and Gyomei believes they must kill him quickly for thinking such things. Tanjiro begs them to listen and states he became a Demon Slayer to protect her, mentioning it has been two years and she hasn't bitten anyone. Tengen instead believes that his explanation is circling endlessly, disregarding that Nezuko hasn't attacked anyone as empty words, while Muichiro looks at a bird. However, Mitsuri is unsure they can proceed without their master's knowledge, urging her peers to wait for him. Tanjiro yells out that Nezuko has fight beside him, and that she too can fight for the Corps and protect people.
Wind Hashira Sanemi Shinazugawa questions Tanjiro's actions.
Someone enters the scene and enjoys the tense situation; as a Kakushi urges the individual to put down Nezuko's box, he insults Tanjiro as the "idiotic Corps member" who travels with a demon; Wind Hashira Sanemi Shinazugawa demands to know what he is trying to do. As Mitsuri admires his rugged appearance, the Kakushi apologize to Shinobu for allowing his interruption. Unexpectedly, Shinobu, with a stern expression, orders Sanemi not to act rashly. However, Sanemi questions Tanjiro's own actions, asking how he could believe a demon could possibly fight for the Corps. Dismissing it as a completely impossibility, he draws his blade and stabs into Nezuko's box in front of everyone, impaling the demon in her shoulder. Tanjiro sprints at the Hashira and declares he will not let anyone hurt Nezuko, as Sanemi dismisses his challenge and prepares his blade. Giyu suddenly calls out that the master is arriving, causing Sanemi to lose focus and miss his swing, allowing Tanjiro to head butt squarely in the face.
Mitsuri bursts out in laughter but quickly recomposes herself as the Hashira look at her with confusion. Obanai, despite noting Giyu's intervention, is impressed he has landed a blow on Sanemi. Tanjiro stands in front of Nezuko and advises Sanemi to quit if he can't tell between good and bad demons. Enraged, Sanemi threatens to kill him, but the tense standoff is diffused when the master's arrival is announced; the man greets the Demon Slayers, and Tanjiro looks at him with curiosity.
The master greets the Hashira.
The Master bids everyone a good morning, remarking about the pleasant weather and happy to see that in their bi-annual Hashira meetings, not one member has changed. Tanjiro remarks about the man's unusual appearance, wondering if he carries scars or is sick, when he is suddenly shoved to the ground by Sanemi. Stunned by his tremendous speed, he soon notices the rest of the Hashira bowing before the master. Sanemi warmly greets the Master and prays for his increased happiness and good health; as the Master thanks him for his kind words, Mitsuri quietly laments not being able to greet him.
Before their meeting can start, Sanemi brings up the issue of Tanjiro, a Demon Slayer who travels with a demon, while Tanjiro himself notes that despite his earlier brutish demeanour, Sanemi is now speaking remarkably politely. The Master apologizes for surprising them with the situation but reveals he has accepted the siblings, wanting the Hashira to do so as well. The Hashira are stunned to hear this; Gyomei, despite knowing it is his request, cannot accept a demon, and Tengen "stylishly" opposes as well. Mitsuri wholeheartedly agrees with the Master, as does Muichiro since he will forget he agreed with him later on. Shinobu and Giyu remain silent, Obanai and Kyojuro vehemently disagree with this, and Sanemi demands that Tanjiro and Giyu are both punished.
Having received their answers, the Master asks for his aide to read a letter; she explains it was written by the former Water Hashira Sakonji Urokodaki and reads a portion to the Hashira. In it, Sakonji wishes for Tanjiro and Nezuko to be forgiven, believing that through strong spiritual training, Nezuko has maintain her humanity, even refusing to eat humans when she starves. For two years, she has persisted, and though it seems inconceivable, it is the truth. Ultimately, should Nezuko ever attack a person, along with Tanjiro and Giyu, he will atone for her actions by committing seppuku. Tanjiro looks at Giyu and tears up at the realization of his devotion towards Nezuko.
The Hashira shocked to hear Tanjiro's encounter with Muzan.
Sanemi dismisses Sakonji's vow and believes it doesn't prove anything, and Kyojuro adds that killing a human is an irreversible act. The Master acknowledges this but adds that they cannot prove Nezuko will attack, silencing the two. Since it is a fact that Nezuko has not killed anyone for two years, and three people have staked their lives on her, he urges them to offer an argument stronger than Sakonji's promise, causing them to remain silent. The Master also mentions that Tanjiro has crossed paths with Muzan Kibutsuji. Everyone is shocked to hear this as not one member of the Hashira has ever encountered Muzan.
Tengen asks Tanjiro for his appearance and what his abilties were, while Muichiro asks if he fought him. Sanemi pulls Tanjiro's hair and bombards him with questions such as his actions and his lair; when he and Tengen enter a confrontation over getting answers first, the Master wordlessly raises a finger and they silence themselves immediately. He reveals Muzan has sent demons after Tanjiro, and while it could be as simple as wanting to kill Tanjiro, he has truly revealed himself for the first time and they cannot let the opportunity escape; he adds that perhaps Muzan sees something unexpected in Nezuko as well.
When he asks the Hashira if they now see the importance of the siblings, Sanemi once again objects and believes that while sanctioning a human is one thing, sanctioning a demon is entirely different. He draws his sword and cuts open his forearm, shocking everyone; aiming to prove to the Master that demons cannot be trusted, he drips his blood over Nezuko's box.
Nezuko salivates as she smells Sanemi's blood.
Obanai tell Sanemi to avoid the sunlight or Nezuko will not emerge. Sanemi apologizes for his discourtesy to the Master and leaps into the shade. As he draws his sword, Tanjiro calls out to Nezuko when Obanai suddenly drives his elbow into his back, preventing him from breathing and moving. Sanemi stabs Nezuko again and taunts her with his blood, when the door of her box flies open. She emerges from inside and stares at him, breathing heavily. Shinobu warns Obanai he is pushing too hard on Tanjiro and asks that he ease his hold, but Obanai believes he is trying to escape. She tells Tanjiro not to breathe with his lungs compressed or risk rupturing his blood vessel, but Tengen becomes excited and demands he rupture them, much to Mitsuri's concern. Gyomei pities Tanjiro for his situation.
As Nezuko verges closer to attacking Sanemi, Tanjiro, with great difficulty, summons the strength to break free of restraints, while Obanai's arm is grabbed by Giyu to stop him. Knowing he can't intervene, he calls out to Nezuko, who turns to see her brother. Recalling Sakonji's words message to help humans and not hurt them, her mind is flooded with memories of her family, finally seeing Tanjiro and reiterating that she must never hurt humans. She turns away from Sanemi's bloody arm, surprising him; as the Master is blind, he asks his aide for what has happened, who tells him that Nezuko turn away from Sanemi. Despite being stabbed three times and being directly offered his blood, she did not attack him.
Nezuko refuses Sanemi's taunts and turns away.
The Master sees this as proof that Nezuko will indeed not attack humans, surprising Sanemi and Tanjiro. Obanai pulls his arm from Giyu and demands to know what he is doing, who ignores his question. The Master tells Tanjiro that despite the events of today, there will be those who will still view Nezuko unfavorably. With the proof he needs, he declares both siblings members of the Demon Slayer Corps; as he listens, Tanjiro notes a floating feeling in his head from the Master's voice. He urges Tanjiro to slay a member of the Twelve Kizuki and believes the Hashira will see his value then. Tanjiro vows that he and Nezuko will defeat Muzan Kibutsuji and end the pain caused by demons.
The Master remarks that he is still not ready for such a task and advises him with the Kizuki demon instead, causing Tanjiro to recompose himself from his confident promise. As Tengen and Mitsuri hold back their laughter at Tanjiro's misplaced intentions, the Master tells Tanjiro that the Hashira are tremendously talented, and through laborious training, they have defied death, pushed themselves, and defeated members of the Twelve Kizuki. As such, people shows the Hashira their respect and welcome them, asking Tanjiro to mind how he speaks in front of them, which Tanjiro understand. Finally, he addresses Obanai and Sanemi and asks them not to torment those younger than themselves, which the two acknowledge.
The head of the Demon Slayer Corps is a man named Kagaya Ubuyashiki. His voice and rhythm are known to soothe those he speaks to; known as 1/f fluctuation, it is a skill that is found in those who are charismatic and have the strength and presence to move masses of people. Concluding his trial, Kagaya advises Tanjiro to leave as the Hashira meeting commences.
Muichiro becomes annoyed by Tanjiro's interruption of Kagaya.
Shinobu offers to house Tanjiro at her mansion, and at her signal, two Kakushi appear to take him away. Eeven before Kagaya can begin, Tanjiro interrupts him and begs for more head butts on Sanemi, one for each time he stabbed Nezuko. As the Kakushi attempt to reel him in, he claims that head butts are not against their rules but is suddenly knocked down by three flying pebbles. Muichiro tells the Demon Slayer that interrupting Kagaya is rude, causing the Kakushi to abruptly apologize to the Master and the Mist Hashira; Mitsuri notes that despite his aloof behavior, Muichiro really was aware of the situation. As Tanjiro is taken away a second time, Kagaya asks him to give Tamayo his regards.
While being taken away, Tanjiro ponders on Kagaya's final statement to him about Tamayo, while the Kakushi instead confront him for his behavior because the Hashira frighten them, demanding that he apologize now for antagonizing them. When they arrive at Shinobu's place, the Butterfly Mansion, they see no one at the front and head to the back; as the Kakushi carrying Tanjiro asks if he can walk by himself, Tanjiro remarks his entire body is in pain. They see a girl in the garden and realize she is a Tsuguko. She is Kanao Tsuyuri, and a Tsuguko is a highly skilled Demon Slayer trained by a Hashira. Tanjiro remembers her as the girl from Final Selection, but the Kakushi carrying him believes he forgot Kanao was the one to knock him unconscious.
Kanao Tsuyuri.
They asks for her permission to enter the mansion, under Shinobu's orders, but Kanao simply smiles at them. A loud voice then calls them from behind and asks who they are, startling them. When she realizes they are Kakushi and carry an injured person, she takes them in. Inside the mansion's hospital, Zenitsu bemoans being forced to take unpleasant tasting medication five times a day for three months, much to the concern of the girl tending to him. When she asks that he calm himself, Zenitsu instead yells for answers about his situation.
Tanjiro reunites with Zenitsu.
The girl leading the Kakushi, Aoi Kanzaki, sees his complaining and demands he accept his circumstances, threatening to tie him to the bed. Tanjiro sees his friend and asks if he was hurt and if he came to the mountain. Zenitsu is relieved to see him and explains how a large spider injected him with a poison, and yet, Aoi is seemingly worse, while being eyed by the visibly annoyed Aoi. When he asks for Inosuke and Murata, Zenitsu does not know the latter but points to Inosuke in the next bed. Tanjiro gets off the Kakushi and crawls to his bed, relieved to see him and tearfully apologizing for not helping him.
Inosuke quietly forgives him, surprising Tanjiro with the hoarseness in his voice. Zenitsu explains his throat was crushed and his neck was severely injured, yet he continued to yell afterwards, leaving his throat in terrible condition. He adds that since his injuries, Inosuke has been mellow and calm, much to his relief, though his delight at Inosuke's misfortune leads to Tanjiro questioning his friend's sanity. Tanjiro's listed injuries are multiple cuts, abrasions on his face and limbs, sprains throughout his body, pulled muscles, and contusions in his jaw. Zenitsu was poisoned, leaving numbness in his right arm, right leg, and trembling in his left arm. Inosuke suffered trauma to his larynx and vocal cords, while Nezuko only sustains a lack of sleep.
The four eventually recover; Nezuko sleeping in her box, Tanjiro persisted despite great pain, Zenitsu continued to complain about taking his medication, and Inosuke, though depressed over his weakness, was continually encouraged by his friends. A while later, a visitor appears to greet Tanjiro; Murata, who only sufferd a jammed finger. He tells them about how he was summoned to the Hashira meeting to report about the incident on Mount Natagumo, and how during said meeting, they were all angered by the Demon Slayers' lackluster skill and believed their quality had been declining; Murata was especially interrogated on his peers' trainers and whether they followed orders
Shinobu asks Tanjiro, Zenitsu, and Inosuke about their recovery.
As he continues to bemoan his unpleasant encounter with the Hashira, they are joined by the Insect Hashira herself, causing Murata to flee at the sight of her. Shinobu asks the three on how well they are doing; when they answer they are much better, which the exception of Inosuke, Shinobu states it is now time for them to begin Rehabilitation Training.
Zenitsu remembers the sound Shinobu make.
As Zenitsu continues to heal, he has been dutifully following his routine of medication and sunlight exposure, and while he knows he would recover, he hears that some of the recovered Demon Slayers had suffered after effects. He remembers the sounds Shinobu make and that it is unlike anything he has heard, almost scary; despite this, when she saved the transformed Demon Slayers, she appeared almost like a goddess, causing them to tear up. Zenitsu adds that Shinobu is very attractive.
Aoi explains the steps in Rehabilitation Training.
However, each time she took Tanjiro and Inosuke to Rehabilitation Training, they would return broken and exhausted, refusing to talk as they went back to bed, which unnerved Zenitsu. Soon, he recovers and joins his friends in rehabilitation. In the Butterfly Mansion's training hall, Aoi introduces Zenitsu to the three steps of his rehabilitation. He will first be stretched by the mansion's three helpers to loosen his muscles. Then comes reflex training where, on a table with cups of medicinal tea, the objective is to splash the opponent with a cup without them doing so in return. Finally is full-body training, which is essentially a game of tag between her and later Kanao.
As Tanjiro and Inosuke bemoan having to train again, Zenitsu only appears shocked. He asks Aoi for a moment and tells Tanjiro and Inosuke to follow him; they are caught off-guard when Zenitsu drags them outside. In the yard, he demands the two "idiot jerks" to listen to him; Inosuke does not take kindly to the insult but is suddenly punched into the wall by Zenitsu. Tanjiro orders him to apologize but Zenitsu instead demands they apologize to him, asking why they act forlorn when they "were actually in heaven".
He is angered by their haggard expressions after spending an entire day with girls; Tanjiro reprimands him but Zenitsu continues by listing the things they get to do, namely touching them during each step of training, before mentioning all the things the girls have that attract him. Inosuke retorts that losing to them is embarrassing but Zenitsu does not pity his failures and believes he has not spent time with girls, to which Inosuke clarifies he has stepped on plenty of them, angering him. Tanjiro notes that for better or worse, the two are now motivated to train, but believes it is wrong to do so with impure motives.
A reinvigorated Inosuke mercilessly beats Aoi.
He and Inosuke watch Zenitsu laughing blissfully during the rigorous stretching procedure. In reflex training, Zenitsu bests Aoi each time but refuses to splash her to be chivalrous, annoying Aoi. In full-body training, he grabs her and is punched in the face, to which Zenitsu remarks that he "won the game, but lost the fight". Inosuke, not one to like losing, mercilessly defeats Aoi by splashing her in the face and grabbing her by the legs, causing Tanjiro to fall behind.
However, despite initial success, all three were unable to beat Kanao in both reflexes and full-body training; Tanjiro notes that despite finishing the same Final Selection as them, she remains far ahead. For five days, Kanao remains unbeaten; it is especially hard on Inosuke with his dislike of losing, and Zenitsu eventually accepted that he was well enough. Both began to skip training; Aoi, despite being annoyed by them not taking training seriously, did not mind and even asked Tanjiro to skip if he wanted too. Though he was motivated to keep trying, ten more fruitless days pass. He tries to understand how she is so different; she is so fast, even if he did recover, Tanjiro remains sure he still wouldn't beat her. Her scent is also different and closer to that of the Hashira, and he notes that she has unique eyes.
His train of thought is interrupted by the girls of the mansion, who give him a towel to dry himself. They ask if he maintains Total Concentration Breathing across the entire day, but he becomes confused. The girls ask again if he uses it morning, noon, and night, even when he sleeps. Tanjiro responds that he doesn't and does not see it as possible; when they tell him it will make the difference, he notes that he even struggles to use it. They inform him that some can do it, such as the Hashira and Kanao, to which Tanjiro thanks them for the idea and promises to try it the next day.
Kiyo explains the gourd training method to Tanjiro.
In his first attempt at maintaining Total Concetration, Tanjiro quickly collapses as the physical toll proves too much; he is startled by a loud sound in his ears and believes his heart will pop from them. Seeing he has not recovered, he recalls the basics from Sakonji; the lungs are essential in breathing and he'll have to improve them to progress. The helpers of the mansion see him hard at work and decide to bring him rice balls and gourds.
While eating, Tanjiro observes the gourd they have brought, which he must blow into. One of them explains that Shinobu instructed Kanao to do the same as training. When he believes them to be an instrument, she instead tells him the objective is to make them burst, who surprises Tanjiro. He taps the gourd and notes the dried texture, to which she adds that as it is harder than normal gourds. Tanjiro is aghast to learn a petite girl like Kanao is capable of such a task, and the girls reveal the gourds Kanao is now able to break, which are as large as them. Both stunned and motivated, Tanjiro promises to try the new training method.
Fifteen days later, while sitting atop the roof of the Butterfly Mansion, Tanjiro remarks that he feels his strength returning; he can run for longer and his lungs are much stronger. During the day, he trains his lungs with fast movements, and at night, he trains by breathing slowly to circulate his oxygen to every part of his body.
Shinobu appears beside Tanjiro.
Sakonji had taught him that meditation improves concentration, but he momentarily loses focus when he imagines Haganezuka, who would understandably be furious to learn his Nichirin sword is broken. Additionally, he may have fought one of the Twelve Kizuki but he failed to take their blood, noting that Tamayo's cat is looking at him disapprovingly. As he attempts to regain concentration, he is met by Shinobu, who is impressed by his dedication to train, whereas Zenitsu and Inosuke are doing something else. Initially blushing at the sight of her, he is put at ease when Shinobu sits beside him and asks if he is lonely training, to which Tanjiro reassures her that once he learns to maintain Total Concentration, he can teach it to Zenitsu and Inosuke.
Tanjiro asking why Shinobu offers to house Tanjiro at her mansion.
She tells him he has a pure heart; when Tanjiro asks why she brought them to her mansion, she replies it is because they learned of Nezuko's true nature and his injuries. Additionally, she hoped to entrust her dream in him; to have demons and humans coexist peacefully. Tanjiro then asks if she is angry, which surprises her; he notes that despite her smile, she always has the scent of anger. Shinobu confirms this, explaining that it began with the death of her elder sister and that her anger has only grown from seeing the continual harm demons cause humans. It is an anger she cannot silence and she adds that the Hashira all feel the same way; even after seeing Nezuko show restraint, the Hashira will not attack her only because of Kagaya's wishes.
Shinobu tells Tanjiro to keep fighting and defending Nezuko.
Shinobu mentions that her sister was kind like him and felt sympathy for demons, even pitying them as she died, while she herself could not feel sympathy to those who kill humans. Despite this, she believes she must carry out her sister's wish, and if there is a way to avoid killing pitiful demons, she must find it without losing the sunny disposition her sister enjoyed in her.  Shinobu remarks she is tired of trying, seeing that demons are irredeemable, always lying to save themselves and killing without reason. As she stands up, the Insect Hashira tells the Demon Slayer to keep fighting and defending Nezuko, and when she believes he is succeeding at her sister's dream, she will be put at ease, before vanishing from view.
Tanjiro breaks the largest training gourd.
Seeing her trust in him, Tanjiro vows to do his best. He instructs the girls of the mansion - Naho, Kiyo, and Sumi - to help him train by beating him with carpet beaters when he fails to maintain Total Concentration when he sleeps, to which they oblige to. That night, while sleeping and breathing, Tanjiro begins to snore, causing the three to beat him awake. Ten days later, while training with the largest gourd, Tanjiro takes a deep breath and blows into it. With the girls' encouragement, he successfully breaks it open, much to their excitement.
In full-body training, Tanjiro chases Kanao and keeps up with her with his improved speed; while still not fully mastering Total Concentration throughout the entire day, it is a sign he is getting close and his body has changed, and he grows excited to swing a Nichirin sword with his new strength. Eventually, he successfully grabs her hand and wins.
Tanjiro defeats Kanao in reflexes training.
Partaking in reflexes training, Tanjiro and Kanao trade blows at incredible speeds, seemingly neck and neck. Unwilling to lose, he perseveres and is able to grab a cup before she can block it, but realizes it would be rude to splash her with its unpleasant smelling contents. Instead, he taps her head with the cup, which Kiyo and Naho notes is still a successful victory. As the girls and Tanjiro celebrate his success, Inosuke and Zenitsu stare in disbelief at his improvement.
Shinobu appears behind Tanjiro to encourage Zenitsu and Inosuke.
Despite just witnessing Tanjiro finally beat Kanao, Zenitsu struggles to find his motivation to train, while Inosuke cannot bear slow progress. He surmises it is due to Tanjiro being far ahead of them, and despite his attempts to teach the two, they cannot perform Total Concentration Constant. Shinobu then appears behind Tanjiro and informs them about what he has mastered; Total Concentration Constant is Total Concentration Breathing performed every minute of every day to improve physical abilities.
She mentions that while it is a basic move, hence Tanjiro's ability to do it, mastering it takes great effort. To this, she pats Inosuke on the shoulder and jabs at his inability to perform the technique. "Anyway, of course you can do it, but if you can't, then that's that." This riles up the boar-headed Demon Slayer and he angrily threatens to hurt her for talking down on him. Shinobu then approaches Zenitsu and grabs his hand, causing him to go insane with bliss as she encourages him to train. The now excited Zenitsu promises to train for her, much to Tanjiro's bewilderment.
Nine days later, both Zenitsu and Inosuke have mastered Total Concentration Constant, thanks to Shinobu's teaching skills and motivation making up for Tanjiro's lack thereof. He then informs his friends that his new Nichirin katana has arrived. informed by a Kasugai Crow. Tanjiro and Inosuke walk outside the mansion, where the former greets the arriving Haganezuka and his companion. However, the smith is unhappy to see him and furiously charges at Tanjiro with a knife, narrowly missing him. He is angered at him breaking his sword, and despite Tanjiro explaining it was during a battle with a powerful opponent, Haganezuka accuses him of being too weak to wield it, claiming his blade would have never broken as such, all while poking his face. The 37 year old swordsmith proceeds to chasing Tanjiro for an hour with his knife.
Haganezuka attempts to stab Tanjiro for breaking his katana.
Inside the mansion, Haganezuka's companion comments on the former's intense passion for his blade, perhaps twice that of a normal smith, and introduces himself as Kanamori. He has forged Inosuke's two new blades; Kanamori and Tanjiro admire Inosuke's weapons, which the swordsmith notes is a faint grey-blue shade. As Tanjiro mentions Inosuke's old weapons were badly chipped, while being punched by Haganezuka, Kanamori asks for Inosuke's input as it was the first time he made weapons for a dual-wielder. Inosuke then walks out onto the yard to find a stone. In front of all, Inosuke begins to chip deep gouges into his new katanas to his liking, causing Kanamori to seethe with intense rage, needing to be held back by Tanjiro from killing "the thank-less brat".
In Tanjiro's room, Zenitsu talks to the sleeping Nezuko whilst she is in her box, speaking about what happened during his training and the hardships he endured whilst getting better. Despite the struggle, he enjoyed being able to do more than ever and he thanks Tanjiro for his encouragement, calling him a good brother. Nezuko responds by scratching her box and Zenitsu realizes he was to take her to the spot where he picked a flower for her. At the same time, Kanamori and Haganezuka unhappily leave the mansion for the night, as Tanjiro bows in apology for their troubles.
An alternate dimension of platforms, stairs, and rooms.
Inside an enormous space of warped staircases and platforms, a biwa-wielding demon strums, causing Lower Rank Six to appear in the space with her. The demon is confused by where he is standing, and as she continues to strum, Lower Six believes the area is her Blood Demon Art. The demons Lower One, Lower Two, Lower Three, and Lower Four appear in the space as well; Lower Six notices it is the first time the Lower Ranks have been summoned together, before seeing that Lower Five has not appeared. Suddenly, the demon's strum brings them all to a platform in front of her and another ornately dressed woman.
The Lower Ranks gathered before Muzan.
As the demons wonder who she is, her familiar voice commands them to bow, causing everyone to immediate crouch and lower their heads to her. Lower Six realizes that Muzan Kibutsuji stands before them, having disguised his appearance and aura to an extremely high-degree. Lower Four attempts to apologize for their misunderstanding but Muzan silences her, telling the Lower Ranks they are to listen to his words only and nothing else. He informs them that Lower Five, Rui, has been killed, and demands to know why the members of the Lower Ranks are so weak.
Muzan explains that their joining of the Twelve Kizuki is only the beginning; it is their job to eat more people to get stronger and become useful to him. While the Upper Ranks have not changed for over a century and are the only ones to have killed the Hashira, their positions continued to change in that same time. Lower Six questions why Muzan expects so much of them, "What are we supposed to say to that?", only for Muzan speaks his exact thoughts out loud. He realizes that Muzan can read their thoughts as the powerful demon orders him to explain why he is now so worried.
The ranks of the Twelve Kizuki.
Within the Twelve Kizuki are two echelons; the Upper Ranks and the Lower Ranks. Numbered from one to six, the order means that Upper Rank One is the strongest member and Lower Rank Six is the weakest. The Upper Ranks have both eyes engraved whilst the Lower Ranks only have one engraved with their position; additionally, the Upper Ranks show disdain towards their inferior peers.
It is revealed that Muzan can read the minds of those he gives blood to, and if he can see them, he can know what they are thinking; even when farther distances causes his mind-reading ability to blur, he is always able to discern where they are. As such, Nezuko being taken to Ubuyashiki Mansion was a detriment to the Demon Slayer Corps as it meant Muzan immediately knew where Kagaya's headquarters was located. However, both she and Tamayo have made the effort to remove his curse from them, something he remains unaware of.
As Muzan hoists Lower Six into the air with a monstrous arm, the now tearful demon repeatedly begs for his master's forgiveness; he refuses and devours the hapless demon whole, spraying his fellow demons in blood. Lower Three is speechless, wondering if he will be killed too and if his efforts to join the Twelve Kizuki will be for nothing, believing he was destined for more. Muzan then asks the Lower Ranks if they are more afraid of the Demon Slayers than of him, causing Lower Four to flinch and refute this. He questions her further by claiming she flees from the Hashira whenever she sees them; she tearfully denies this, claiming she would risk her life for him. Unfortunately, he only sees this as contradicting his words, and Lower Four helplessly watches as his monstrous arm descends to crush and devour her as well.
Muzan beheads Lower Three.
As Lower One observes with curiosity and Lower Two remains shocked, Lower Three realizes this is his end and he will be killed regardless of agreeing or disagreeing with his master. Seeing that he cannot fight him, he leaps into the air in an attempt to escape, leaping down and across multiple platforms in the alternate dimension; Lower One watches him and derides his decision as foolish. The demon attempts to plan his escape but finds himself back in Muzan's hand as a severed head, as Muzan explains that he will kill them all and keep the Upper Ranks alive, shocking Lower Two with his now impending fate; Lower One remains calm and silent.
Lower Three questions how he failed as he did not hear the biwa's strum, as well as seeing that he cannot regenerate. When Muzan asks for any final words from the last two Lower Ranks, Lower Two claims he is still useful to him. Muzan questions how he can prove it with his current strength, to which the demon asks for a portion of his blood, assuring his master that he will acclimate successfully and fight as a stronger demon for him. Tossing Lower Three's head before him, Muzan demands to know how he can impudently ask for his blood, ordering him to know his place. Shocked, Lower Two claims he meant no disrespect, but Muzan silences his frightened pleas and explains he is never wrong; his authority and word is absolute, and for speaking up against him, he will be killed.
Muzan injects Lower One with his blood, pleased by his admiration of him.
Muzan faces Lower Rank One and asks for his final words; Lower Three believes he too will die, realizing their lives all hinged on Muzan's will as he begins to fade to ash. Lower One speaks of his delight in the situation, claiming it was his dream to die by his hand. He was thrilled to hear his peers' deaths, revelling in their suffering and thanking Muzan for saving him last. The demon is suddenly pierced by an enormous spine; his initial smile of pleasure becomes a contorted face of agony as Muzan injects him with blood, pleased by his admiration. Explaining that much blood will be given to him, Muzan notes that while he may die in the process, he will become even stronger by surviving the transfusion.
He orders Lower One to make himself useful by killing a Hashira, and he also adds an incentive; if he can kill a Demon Slayer wearing hanafuda-earrings, he will receive even more blood. With that, the Biwa Demon begins to strum, taking Muzan to the surface of the alternate dimension and transporting Lower One through numerous doors, before releasing the demon in an unknown town. He receives a vision from the blood as it strengthens him, a vision of Tanjiro, and Lower One begins to grow ecstatic at the idea of more blood by killing him and a Hashira.
Shinobu checks up on Tanjiro's jaw.
After concluding a medical check-up for Tanjiro's jaw, Shinobu concludes that he has healed and bids him good luck for the future. Before leaving her office, Tanjiro asks the Insect Hashira if she knows about the Hinokami Kagura. To his surprise, she does not, and when he asks again if she knows about "Fire Breathing" instead, she gives the same answer. After explaining how he came to know about the style, she concludes that since his father likely used the style, he must approach someone who may know more about it. Shinobu mentions that Fire Breathing does not exist but Flame Breathing does; when Tanjiro notes that they seem similar, she is not sure on the specifics but is aware that Fire Breathing and Flame Breathing must never gets their names mixed up.
Tanjiro sees the quarrelsome survivor from his Final Selection, now much taller.
To help him, Shinobu directs his attention towards the Flame Hashira Kyojuro, and suggest sending a message via a Kasugai crow. After leaving her office, Tanjiro walks down the hallway when he hears someone approaching. A tall boy turns the corner, but even as Tanjiro moves aside, he purposely shoves into his shoulder. Initially dismayed, Tanjiro quickly recognizes that he was the same boy from his Final Selection, the quarrelsome individual who struck one of the exam overseers. He is amazed to see how much he has grown and wonders why he is at the Butterfly Mansion, as well as noting his strange scent; Tanjiro calls out to him but is ignored.
Upon hearing that he is leaving, Aoi bids him good luck while noting that she had a pleasant time with him. Tanjiro thanks her passionately, as it was with Aoi's help that he and his friends can fight again. Hearing this, Aoi mentions that unlike him, she is unimportant as she cannot fight; even as a survivor of Final Selection, she attributes it to luck and claims she is too much of a coward to fight demons. Saddened, Tanjiro tries reassuring her by claiming that by helping him, she is a part of him that he can take into battle, something he will keep in mind; this notion surprises her, and as Tanjiro leaves, she continues to look at him with a stunned expression.
After searching the mansion, Tanjiro finds Kanao to explain he is heading out and thank her. She only continues to smile quietly, somewhat surprising Tanjiro. He compliments her great skill as Shinobu's Tsuguko, despite joining the Corps at the same time as him and his friends, but Kanao remains silent with a smile on her face. After a few wordless moments, she takes out a coin, flips it, and talks to him; she tells him that she was only following her master's orders and that his gratitude is unnecessary, before bidding him goodbye. Tanjiro is surprised that she spoke, and as she continues to bid him goodbye, he asks about her coin.
Kanao explains that she tosses it to help her decide on a choice she wasn't given; she flipped it just then to decide whether she should speak to him. After telling him goodbye again, Kanao is asked why she doesn't decide for herself. She clarifies that her decisions don't matter; to her, nothing does, and as such she doesn't need to choose for herself. Tanjiro instead tells her that everything in the world matters; he believes that while following orders is important, so is following the voice in her heart. He then asks for her coin and Kanao reluctantly hands it to him. Tanjiro explains he will flip it to decide if she will begin following the voice in her heart from now on, but he flicks it too hard and it takes several moments to land back down; during this, Kanao grows anxious of the coin's result, as Tanjiro tells her the result to make her listen to her heart is by landing on heads.
Tanjiro advises a stunned Kanao to follow her heart.
Tanjiro catches it and excitedly brings it to her, covering it with his hand. She becomes nervous as she could not see it land due to his back turn to him. He removes his hand to reveal the coin land on heads, and as he leaps into the air with joy, Kanao is shocked. After putting her hand out to get her coin back, Kanao is stunned as Tanjiro takes her hands and reassures her, claiming that the heart is what drives people and hers can get strong too. As he turns to leave, she gets up and asks how the coin had landed on heads, surprising him. Despite the result, Kanao notes that he did not cheat the toss, but to answer this, Tanjiro simply tells her it was by chance; if it had landed on tails, he would have tossed repeatedly until it landed on heads, before telling the Tsuguko to take care.
Kanao observes the coin in her hand and clutches it to her chest for a few moments, until a sudden announcement from behind by Kiyo shocks her into falling face first to the ground.
Inosuke sees a train for the first time.
After a tearful farewell from Kiyo, Sumi, and Naho, including a few tears shed by the boys themselves, Tanjiro, Zenitsu, and Inosuke make their way to a train station. During this, Zenitsu is annoyed that they did not received orders from Shinobu's place; Tanjiro tries explaining that their treatment was finished anyway and they could follow orders more quickly at the location, but the annoyed Demon Slayer claims they could have avoided their saddening goodbye. As they begin to quarrel over their situation, Inosuke looks at a distant train and wonders, "What kinda animal is that?!"

Inosuke nervously trembles as he remarks that the "Lord of the Land" lies before them. "It's so long and overwhelming, it's gotta be!", as he anxiously warns his friends that it is asleep. Zenitsu informs him it is simply a steam train but Inosuke warns him to be silent as he prepares to attack it. Tanjiro instead chimes in that it may perhaps be the land's "Guardian deity", cautioning him from attacking it, but Zenitsu irritably repeats that it is merely a steam train, annoyed by his countrymen's lack of knowledge. Tanjiro is surprised to know as his crow had mentioned a train is part of their mission, only to be interrupted by Inosuke head-butting the train carriage. Station police arrive at the commotion and are shocked to see them wielding katanas, causing Zenitsu to panic and grab Inosuke as he tells everyone to run.
Safe behind cover, Zenitsu explains that the Japanese government does not recognize the Demon Slayer Corps; as such, they cannot openly carry their weapons as they won't be believed if they explain demons exist. Tanjiro is dismayed to hear that their efforts aren't recognized, and although Zenitsu feels the same way, he instructs them to hide their katanas for safety, though he is annoyed by Inosuke's weak attempt at concealing his. Tanjiro informs them that the Mugen train is where they must meet Kyojuro, as he is already on board. Seeing as Tanjiro intends to talk to him, Zenitsu leaves to buy their tickets.
Tanjiro and Zenitsu meets the Flame Hashira.
Inside the train, Inosuke is aghast to realize they are inside its 'stomach', continuing to irritate Zenitsu. He asks Tanjiro if Kyojuro is indeed a Hashira and whether he knows what he looks like. As Tanjiro answers that he has a strange hair color and notable scent, they suddenly hear someone loudly exclaiming "Delicious!". They follow the sound and see Kyojuro himself in the middle of savouring bento boxes, continuing the exclamation aloud. Zenitsu notes that the Flame Hashira seems to merely be a glutton eating; Tanjiro attempts to get his attention but is yelled the word delicious as a response.
After he finishes eating, Tanjiro asks about his Hinokami Kagura, but like Shinobu, Kyojuro does not know about the style; he instead commends his father for using it in combat and does not elaborate. When he asks for more information, Tanjiro is merely asked to become his Tsuguko; Inosuke continues to bang on the windows as Zenitsu calmly watches people's reactions to it. Kyojuro then explains that Flame Breathing has a long history as in all ages, a Flame Hashira has always served over the years.
Kyojuro explains the five fundamental Breathing Styles.
He also explains the five basic Breathing Styles – Flame, Water, Wind, Stone, and Thunder – by which all styles extend from, such as Mist Breathing descending from Wind Breathing. When he asks "Mizoguchi" about his sword color, he learns that Tanjiro's blade is black and mentions being unaware of the Hashira that would wield a black blade, as such wielders purportedly do not master a style. However, to assuage his concerns, Kyojuro offers to train him at his place, something that Tanjiro is appreciative of. "What a considerate guy..."
Inosuke sticks his body out the window and claims he wants to race the train, much to Zenitsu's growing annoyance; Kyojuro warns him not to and to remain vigilant about the demon, surprising Tanjiro and Zenitsu. The latter is horrified as he believed they were travelling to the sight of the demon, to which the Hashira explains that over 40 people have disappeared on the train, including the Demon Slayers sent to investigate it, hence his investigation. However, this does not give Zenitsu comfort, claiming he will disembark as a conductor appears to inspect their tickets.
Kyojuro prepares to fight.
As he punches them, Tanjiro suddenly detects a terrible scent; the conductor tells them to enjoy their trip in a droning, lowly manner, and Kyojuro stands to unveil his blade, asking him to ignore it during this time of emergency. An immense demon suddenly appears in the carriage with them, startling the passengers. Kyojuro realizes it hid itself with its Blood Demon Art, before warning it from attacking. "If you bare your fangs at innocent people, my bright red Flame blade will burn you to the bone!" The demon angrily roars and charges at the Hashira, who responds with Flame Breathing, First Form: Unknowing Fire to behead it instantly.
Amazed by the display of power, Tanjiro asks the Hashira to make him a Tsuguko, followed by Zenitsu and Inosuke asking of the same, calling him "big brother Rengoku". Kyojuro happily offers to train and look after them all. As the four begin to fall asleep for the night, Lower Rank One continues to stand atop the train, pleased by their slumber. "Nothing will make me happier than to die as I dream!"
Enmu instructing four desperate children to cripple the Demon Slayers.
After punching the tickets of the Demon Slayers to make them fall asleep, the train's conductor begins begging for someone to put him to sleep as well, wishing to see his dead wife and daughter. He kneels down and it is revealed he is speaking to a disembodied hand with the kanjis for dream etched across it. The demonic hand commends him for his work and obliges, using a spell to put the man into a state of deep slumber. Behind it sits four insomniac children waiting for the hand's orders, who too wish to be put to sleep as well.
The hand instructs them to wait for the Demon Slayers' sleep to deepen as their instincts are so sharp, they can sense malevolence and demonic activity. He tells the children to not touch them when they tie themselves to the Demon Slayers. While he must stay at the front car, the hand reassures them they can earn their sleep once his preparations are complete. The hand is shown to be an extension of Enmu; as he stands atop the train locomotive, he remarks that a Demon Slayer's strength is only defined by their motivation coming from the heart and spirit. As such, destroying their spiritual cores will render them living corpses that are easy to kill. To the demon, all human hearts are like fragile glasswork.
Zenitsu dreams he is in a peach tree forest with Nezuko as his girlfriend, showing her the way to the ripe fruit and blooming clovers, wanting to make a ring of the flowers for her. When they must cross a shallow river, Nezuko insists she cannot swim, to which Zenitsu enthusiastically offers to piggyback her across the water. Meanwhile, Inosuke dreams he is leading a cave expedition, with a racoon "Ponjiro", squirrel "Chuitsu", and rabbit Nezuko as his underlings. He even offers Nezuko an acorn for obeying him as he leads the pack to an underground adventure.
Kyojuro dreams he is at home, sitting before his father after telling him he is now the Flame Hashira. However, his father rejects the achievement as taking up a worthless title, claiming his son will never amount to anything. After leaving him, Kyojuro meets with his younger brother Senjuro, who is anxious to hear about what he said: he too wonders if his father will be proud of him when he becomes the next Flame Hashira. Kyojuro reminisces on their father: he was not always despondent and bitter, and at one time, he performed his duties as Hashira and trained them with enthusiasm. This joy stopped suddenly one day.
Kyojuro encouraging his brother Senjuro.
Despite this, Kyojuro does not dwell on his disappointment knowing Senjuro has it worse, being very young when their mother died and scarcely knowing their father was once caring. He flatly explains that their father claimed no one would care, but that he also refuses to let it dampen his own enthusiasm. Addressing Senjuro, Kyojuro explains that unlike his lonesome self, he has his older brother to encourage him, telling him to walk the path in his heart as he has the passion to do so. He embraces the tearful Senjuro as he tells him to work hard in life.
Tanjiro is "reunited" with his family.
Tanjiro dreams he is walking back at home at a time before his family's deaths. He sees his siblings Shigeru and Hanako welcoming him back after selling charcoal. Shocked to be reunited with his lost siblings, Tanjiro tearfully embraces them as he apologizes incessantly, much to their shock. As Tanjiro sleeps with tears in his eyes, Enmu's hired passengers take their positions beside each Demon Slayer, tying a special rope to their wrists and their own. After doing so, they close their eyes and count to ten while breathing deeply, allowing them to sleep and enter their dreams.
In Tanjiro's dream, Hanako explains to the rest of the family how Tanjiro suddenly began crying while hugging them, to which Takeo jokingly calls him weird. Their mother Kie insists he is tired and needs to rest, but Tanjiro reassures them he is fine and that earlier, it was like he had a nightmare. Shigeru then jokingly covers him in a bed sheet, much to everyone's laughter. Enmu senses that everyone is falling deeper into their slumber, finding joy that they may never again wake up.
One of Enmu's minions enters Kyojuro's dream with the help of a special rope made by Enmu, that allows the user to enter the dreams of whoever they are tied to. She sneaks past his consciousness and rushes towards the "edge" of the dream. It is learnt that the dreams Enmu creates are finite and circular in shape, the realm of the unconsciousness exists beyond the dream and that is where a person's spiritual core is located. If their spiritual core is destroyed then that person becomes an empty husk of their self.
Kyojuro stops the girl.
The girl proceeds to tear down the walls of Kyojuro's dream and reach his subconscious. They find that it is entirely on fire and locate his spiritual core as Kyojuro begins to stir in the physical realm. She remarks that she has never seen a red spiritual core before as she proceeds to try and destroy it, however she is stopped dead in her tracks as back in the physical realm Kyojuro, sensing that he is in danger, grabs her neck in a vice grip leaving her immobile but not killing her. The pair are at a stalemate as the girl can no longer move and Kyojuro will not kill a human.
Tanjiro realizes he is dreaming.
Meanwhile in Tanjiro's dream, he asks his family of Nezuko's whereabouts and cannot hold back his concern at her being outside in daylight but is unable to remember why that is so. His mother asks him to prepare the bath and he goes out to collect water, on his way he sees the box he uses to carry Nezuko in and stares at it in vague recognition. However, just at that moment he bumps into a bucket and when he looks back at the spot where the box stood it was nowhere to be found and wonders if he is beginning to hallucinate.
Tanjiro finally gets to drawing the water but sees himself in his demon slayer garb in the water's reflection. His reflection, drags him beneath and warns him that he is in a dream and in danger in the physical world. He remembers that he is on a train and attempts to wake up but the dream only switches to him having dinner with his family.
Tanjiro is set on fire in his dream.
As Tanjiro wracks his head to figure out a way to escape the dream, back in the physical world Nezuko wakes up. She is puzzled to see Rengoku standing still while strangling a girl and her eyes then find Tanjiro who is visibly struggling to wake up from his dream. She moves up to him and starts shaking him to wake up so he can pat her on the head, when he fails to do so she headbutts him but that only causes her own head to start bleeding and she begins to cry. With blood still oozing out she sets Tanjiro on fire with her Blood Demon Art: Exploding Blood and to his surprise he bursts into flames in his dream as well.
Tanjiro bursts into flames in his dream and his siblings are taken aback. He is able to recognise Nezuko's scent from the flames and realises it is the fire from her blood, he slowly begins to wake up.
His home clothes are replaced by his Demon Slayer uniform and Nichirin blade as his siblings look on in shock and fear. They ask Tanjiro if he is alright and he responds by saying he must leave as he runs out of their house to find the demon who put him in the dream.
Tanjiro meets the dream Nezuko.
He runs into the Nezuko from his dream, still a human, who returns from picking vegetables as his mother Kie Kamado and Rokuta Kamado also join the pair. Kie asks him what is wrong and why he is dressed in such a peculiar manner.
Overcome with sorrow and regret, Tanjiro stops and wistfully thinks to himself how he should have been able to live his life this way forever and that the rest of his family should have been alive with him. He steels himself and accepts that he has already lost all of it and cannot go back.
Tanjiro cries after hearing Rokuta call out to him.
Tanjiro tearfully continues to run and find a way out of the dream, as Rokuta cries after him not to leave them behind. In his rush, Tanjiro doesn't notice that one of Enmu's minions was hiding close by. The minion hastily tries to find Tanjiro's subconscious to destroy his spiritual core. When he finally locates the subconscious he is taken aback by how vast it is and stands gaping in awe.
Meanwhile, another of Enmu's minion inside Inosuke's subconscious is disgusted at it being a cramped series of tunnels she has to crawl through. Suddenly she is shocked as Inosuke find her in his subconscious and yells at her for trespassing, scaring her away.
It is pitch black inside Zenitsu's subconscious as another minion stumbles around trying to find his spiritual core. Abruptly, the sound of sharp blades breaks the silence and Zenitsu appears behind the minion holding a large pair of shears. Enraged at finding a boy inside his subconscious, he says only Nezuko is allowed there and attacks the minion.
The minion gazes in awe at Tanjiro's subconscious.
Tanjiro still wracks his head to figure out how to escape the dream but is unable to find the demon, despite detecting the faint smell of one throughout the environment. He bids himself to hurry as he knows Nezuko is also asleep and thinks that if everyone else were also asleep then they would all be in deep trouble.
Back up at the top of the train, Enmu begins to get concerned as none of the spiritual cores have been destroyed yet but then brushes it aside, satisfied with them just being able to buy him some time.
Still struggling to find a way out of the dream, Tanjiro wildly looks around for a clue. Suddenly, the figure of a grown man dressed similarly to him, his father Tanjuro Kamado, appears behind Tanjiro with his back to him and tells him to draw his sword, as there is something he must cut.
All these odd sightings such as Nezuko's box, his own reflection in the water and now his father's words are all warnings from Tanjiro's instincts to point him in the direction of the solution he seeks. With a sudden realisation he knows what he must do but is a little hesitant, gritting himself he draws his blade and cuts his own neck clean through.
Tanjiro Kamado cuts through his own neck and manages to wake up screaming from Enmu's dream. Nezuko Kamado who had been next to him is startled by the noise as he checks his neck to make sure it is still intact. Tanjiro looks around the scene to gather his bearings and his eyes rest on Nezuko and he immediately asks her if she is alright.
Tanjiro discovers the rope.
As he reaches his hand out to her he notices that there is a rope tied to it which has now been burnt through due to Nezuko's flames, he notices that it smells faintly like a demon and when he pulls out his train ticket he finds that it too smells of demon and deduces that they were all put under the influence of the demon's Blood Art as the tickets were punched.
Surprised at how such a powerful Blood Art could hold such a faint scent, Tanjiro focuses on the rest of his surroundings and is shocked to find Kyojuro Rengoku standing still while restraining a girl by firmly gripping her neck and yells at Zenitsu Agatsuma and Inosuke Hashibira, who are sound asleep to wake up.
Nezuko burns the ropes.
Grabbing his Nichirin blade from beneath his seat Tanjiro gets to work and finds that his other companions also have ropes on their wrists, tying them to other people. He stops short of cutting these ropes with his sword, fearing there may be some danger in doing so and asks Nezuko to burn them instead.
Tanjiro is unaware that his caution is well placed because if the ropes were cut with Nichirin blades then the person invading the dreams of another would never regain consciousness, a risk Enmu had neglected to mention to his minions as he saw them as nothing more than disposable pawns and food.
He tries to wake his companions up but they don't stir, however the girl who had been tied to Rengoku begins to attack him and Tanjiro wonders if she is under the influence of a demon. This idea is quickly dispelled as she yells at him for interfering and that because of it Enmu wouldn't let them dream.
Tanjiro is puzzled as to why the minions are acting of their own free will as the others also wake up and close in on him. The girl yells at one minion who has awoken but refuses to step forward, saying she doesn't care if he has tuberculosis or not and if he didn't help out she would tell on him so that he wouldn't be allowed to dream.
The minion is comforted by Tanjiro's Spiritual Core.
Faintly recognising the unmoving boy as the one who had been tied to him, Tanjiro takes pity on him for having such a horrible disease and in enraged at the demon who is taking advantage of such people and their weaknesses. The boy however, no longer holds any hostility and refuses to move as inside Tanjiro's subconscious he had rekindled the kindness of his youth.
Upon stepping foot into the subconscious he met some sprites, bright and shining, the personification of Tanjiro's kindness. They guessed what he was looking for and had led him to Tanjiro's spiritual core, upon finding the radiant core exuding light and warmth the boy broke down crying and wished to stay there forever.
However, Tanjiro woke up on his own and the boy was pulled from the dream but not before he had grabbed one of the sprites and took it with him and it now lay inside him, a part of Tanjiro's heart in his own giving light and warmth where before there had only been darkness. This vulnerability to being influenced by the subconscious of the dreamer was the biggest risk to entering anyone's dreams and was why Enmu never entered people's dreams himself.
Enmu greets Tanjiro.
Determined to resolve the situation as quickly as possible Tanjiro knocks out the other minions, saying he had to go fight. He says he understands their desire to stay in their dreams, as he had wanted to stay in his own as well. Noticing that the one boy had begun move Tanjiro looks up at him and asks if he is alright to which the replies by thanking him.
Cheered up by this, Tanjiro eagerly resumes his mission to find the demon behind all these events. He reaches the end of the train car and opens the door to be taken aback by the strong stench of the demon and he is shocked that he had managed to stay asleep in such a situation.
Grappling himself to the top of the train, Tanjiro asks Nezuko to wake the others up and races forward to find Enmu at the top. The demon greets him and tells him he should have stayed asleep, continuing to say that Tanjiro should be thanking him for showing him such a nice dream. Taunting him, Enmu asks if next time he should show him his father coming back to life, enraging Tanjiro who gets ready to attack.
Enmu thinks to himself how he loves showing people nightmares after giving them pleasant dreams because he likes seeing them groan and writhe in pain. He resolves not to let his guard down so he can successfully destroy the demon slayers.
Noting that his Blood Demon Art is a long range technique where he mixed his blood with the ink on the train tickets and it activates as soon as the Train Conductor makes a cut mark on the ticket. This was all to ensure that the demon slayers would not notice they were being put under his influence until it was too late.
Enmu puts Tanjiro to sleep.
However, seeing Tanjiro awake and intact despite all these precautions shocks Enmu. As Tanjiro angrily draws his blade he shouts at Enmu not to trample on the dreams of others, the demon notices that he is wearing hanafuda earrings, recognising this as the demon slayer Muzan Kibutsuji ordered him to destroy.
Enmu is pleased to see that his target has come to him on his own so that he can acquire more of Muzan's blood to become stronger and eventually challenge one of the Upper Ranks for their position. Tanjiro begins to perform the Water Breathing, Tenth Form: Constant Flux however Enmu attacks him first with his Blood Demon Art: Whispers of Forced Unconscious Hypnosis, forcing him to sleep. Tanjiro immediately kills himself in his dream to wake up in the blink of an eye to keep his attack going.
Tanjiro's family berates him in his dream.
Puzzled as to why Tanjiro is not passing out, Enmu repeatedly attacks him with his Demon Art, only for Tanjiro to keep on instantaneously waking up and continuing his attack. Enmu acknowledges Tanjiro's grit to kill himself so many times even in a dream. Every time he was hit by Enmu's technique, he would see a nightmare where his family was chastising him, blaming him for their deaths and calling him useless.
Knowing his family would never say such things to him, Tanjiro grows even more enraged at Enmu and lunges at him with a powerful Tenth Form shouting at the demon not to insult his family in such a way. He chops off Enmu's head but is puzzled as to why there is no reaction from the demon. He wonders if he has been caught in another dream of if this demon was just weaker than Rui.
Tanjiro cuts off Enmu's head.
Suddenly, Enmu's dismembered head roots itself on top of the train to Tanjiro's shock and tells the boy that he is under orders to destroy him and the Hashira and that he understands why he was given such orders. Now to him, Tanjiro's very existence makes him twitch in anger.
Tanjiro's eyes grow wide with fear and confusion at Enmu still being alive and this fills the demon with glee and his head laughs, saying he had been looking forward to seeing that expression on the young demon slayer's face.
Elated, he explains that the reason he did not die was because neither that body nor the head currently speaking to him were his real body anymore and that he had fused with the train while they were all asleep.
As Tanjro continues to be appalled at what Enmu tells him, the demon laughs more, joyful at the boy's expression. He goes on to say that the entire train has become his blood, flesh and bones and that all of the passengers will become his food. Taunting Tanjiro by asking if he can delay this train and protect it's passengers, the dismembered head begins to dissolve into the train. Tanjiro rushes forward to swing at it but misses as it dissipates entirely into the train.
Tanjiro calls for his companions to wake up so they can protect the train together and is happy when he hears sounds emanating from below as Inosuke (who is still caught in the happy thoughts of his dreams) bursts through the roof beckoning his minions to follow him as his Explosive Awakening is about to commence.
Tanjiro Kamado calls out to Inosuke Hashibira as the latter bursts through the train's roof and asks him to protect the passengers, warning him that the whole train is a Demon and that no one is safe. Inosuke takes this affirmation that he was correct about the train all along and boasts that's why he is the boss.
Inosuke attacks the ingrowths in the train.
Using his Beast Breathing, Fifth Fang: Crazy Cutting he slices back down into the train and slashes apart all the Demonic ingrowths encroaching on the sleeping passengers below, declaring that he will save them all and that everyone would be bowing to him in thanks he proceeds to use the Fifth Fang to clear the entire car.
Nezuko Kamado also chips in by slashing through the Demonic flesh with her nails, however before long the ingrowths wrap themselves around her arms and legs, trapping her. A sleeping Zenitsu Agatsuma drops in front of her and manages to not only set Nezuko free but also the other passengers around them in a flash by using the Thunder Breathing, First Form: Thunderclap and Flash, Sixfold, he declares that he will protect Nezuko and she looks on in awe. Her admiration is quickly dispelled however, as he pops back asleep mid sentence and begins to snore.
Zenitsu saving Nezuko.
Meanwhile, in the car next to them, Tanjiro is busy slashing away to protect the passengers and wonders if the other are finally all awake as he hears the sounds of Zenitsu's technique. He cannot go to check however as he has his hands full with keeping the passengers on his side of the train safe and is also having difficulty swinging his blade due to the train car being too narrow.
Kyojuro Rengoku finally comes awake and feels ashamed that he was asleep while all this transpired, drawing his blade he blasts forward to where Tanjiro is, causing two of the train cars to violently jump up causing the boy to flip over and bump upside down into the car wall.
As he straightens himself, he looks up to see Kyojuro standing in front of him and the Hashira greets him, saying that he had landed some minor slashes on the ingrowths on his way over. Quickly formulating a plan, Kyojuro tells Tanjiro that the train is divided into eight cars and that he himself would take care of the back five, leaving Nezuko and Zenitsu to take care of the front three and tasks Tanjiro and Inosuke with cutting off the neck of Enmu.
Kyojuro wakes up.
Tanjiro begins to protest that the Demon is now a train with no neck but Kyojuro reassures him that it doesn't matter what a Demon looks like and that as long as it's a Demon it will have a neck, saying that he will also try to locate his weak spot while fighting him and tells Tanjiro it is time to get fired up.
In the blink of an eye Kyojuro blasts off to the back of the train in a wave of flames and Tanjiro is left in awe of his quick thinking and enormous skill. He quickly snaps back to earth and begins to rush forward to the front of the train, noting that Enmu's stench is growing stronger and stronger the further he goes, he shouts out for Inosuke as he runs and his friend yells down at him from the top of the train to quiet down.
He too had been very impressed by Kyojuro's handling of the situation and was rushing to do as he had asked. Tanjiro tells him they must take care of the front three cars and eliminate Enmu and Inosuke rebukes him by saying he already knows their task. He uses his Beast Breathing, Seventh Form: Spatial Awareness to locate Enmu's weak point and finds that it is at the very front also noting that it smells horrible. Both of them begin to rush forward to the front of the train to take down Enmu at last.
Tanjiro Kamado notes how all his companions are working hard to take down Enmu and protect the passengers and rallies himself to do the best he can so he can be of use as well. Following his nose, Inosuke wildly slashes around and jumps into the front car, saying that is where the Demon's smell is the strongest.
The Train Engineer is startled and yells at him to get out but Inosuke ignores him and continues forward, however, the Demonic ingrowths present in the car all form into hands and reach out to grab him.
Inosuke furiously slashes at the arms but is unable to contain them all and some of them grab him by the head and begin to crush him but are quickly sliced down with a Water Breathing, Sixth Form: Whirlpool performed by Tanjiro who arrives in the nick of time. Having cleared out the area, Tanjiro senses that the Demon's stench is coming from right below them and tells Inosuke as much and the boar boy angrily responds that he is the boss and Tanjiro shouldn't boss him around.
Inosuke attacks Enmu's flesh tentacles with Second Fang: Slice.
Performing a Beast Breathing, Second Fang: Slice at the floor to blast it open and Tanjiro looks on in disgust to see that Enmu's neck bone now runs through the bottom of the train right beneath their feet. He launches a Water Breathing, Eighth Form: Waterfall Basin at the bone but the attack is blocked by more ingrowths and the gash in the floor closes up again due to Enmu's regenerative powers.
Holding back the ingrowths is as much as he can accomplish on his own however and so he comes up with a plan to cut the neck where, in conjunction with Inosuke, one of them would cut all the flesh and the other would follow without delay and chop the neck.
Enmu uses his Blood Demon Art.
Commending this brilliant plan, Inosuke agrees but before they can proceed, eyes grow out of the ingrowths as Enmu uses his Blood Demon Art: Eyes of Forced Unconscious Sleep and Tanjiro falls asleep but not before advising Inosuke to kill himself in his own dream to wake up.
Tanjiro quickly regains consciousness again by killing his dream self but stares straight into another eye and falls back asleep, he falls into a cycle of falling asleep, waking himself up and immediately staring into a Demon eye until he begins to have his sword ready to chop his neck off in the real world before he falls asleep.
Tanjiro uses Hinokami Kagura: Clear Blue Sky to slash Enmu's exposed spine.
Inosuke stops him from committing such a grave mistake, saying that he is not dreaming at that moment and he shouldn't die in a lame way. He explains that since he is wearing his boar mask he is unafraid to look at the eyeballs directly and realises that due to the mask Inosuke has a hard time seeing the full gaze and is thus immune to their spell.
The eyeballs all get sliced shut by Inosuke, allowing Tanjiro to see freely again and he notices that the train engineer is about to intervene and attack Inosuke but Tanjiro intercepts and headbutts him. The train engineer however, stabs Tanjiro with the awl made by Enmu, Tanjiro immediately knocks him out and yells that he is alright, bidding Inosuke to quickly attack. Using his Beast Breathing, Fourth Fang: Slice 'n' Dice he reopens the floor, exposing Enmu's neck bone and Tanjiro asks his father for strength and perform the Hinokami Kagura: Clear Blue Sky.
His neck severed, Enmu unleashes a terrible scream.
Tanjiro's attack completely severs Enmu's neck, causing the Lower Rank to unleash a terrible scream and break into pieces. The piece of the Demonic train that Tanjiro and Inosuke are on begins to fall sideways, with the former's earlier wound from the Train Engineer suddenly flaring with pain. Inosuke notes this with concern, but Tanjiro tells him to protect the passengers, his only concern living so that the train engineer doesn't become a murderer. The young Demon Slayer is cast a short distance from the inevitable train wreck, with Inosuke immediately attending to him.
Enmu disintegrates.
Tanjiro asks Inosuke to help the trapped and badly injured engineer, and after a mild argument, the latter agrees to do so. Tanjiro then attempts to stabilize his breathing, wanting to go help the injured passengers.A short distance away, what remains of Enmu notes with disbelief his body's continued disintegration, his lack of regeneration, and his entire scheme's failure.
Someone lands opposite to Tanjiro and Kyojuro.
He further notes the interference of Kyojuro Zenitsu, and Nezuko with frustration, but expresses the most anger towards Tanjiro and Inosuke, attempting to maneuver his crumbling body towards them. This ultimately failing, the Lower Rank laments his inability to ascend to the rank of Upper Rank, desperately wanting a redo as he finally expires.
Kyojuro compliments Tanjiro on being able to constantly perform Total Concentration Breathing, stating that he is one step closer to becoming a Hashira. He then notes the youth's injury, a collapsed blood vessel, and instructs him on how to stop the bleeding. Tanjiro puts all of his focus on stopping the hemorrhage, with support from his superior, and eventually succeeds. Kyojuro explains that if he masters his breathing, he will be able to do a multitude of things, and also informs the youth that all the passengers are safe. Without warning, someone lands near the two and instantly hits into the ground violently upon impact.
The mysterious newcomer aiming to attack a prone Tanjiro.
The dust settles to reveal a tattooed Demon, who Tanjiro quickly realizes is Upper Rank Three of the Twelve Kizuki. The powerful foe swiftly attacks the prone Demon Slayer, but Kyojuro defends the youth and slices the offender's arm in twain with the Flame Breathing, Second Form: Rising Scorching Sun. The Demon retreats a short distance, the damaged arm quickly regenerating, and compliments Kyojuro's blade.
The Upper Rank proposes Kyojuro become a Demon.
Kyojuro states he cannot understand why the Demon would attack a wounded person, the answer to which is that they would simply get in the pair's way. Kyojuro dismisses this, stating that despite this being their first meeting, he already hates the Upper Rank, a sentiment the Demon shares with weak humans. Kyojuro notes their different moral values, to which the Upper Rank offers a proposal: become a Demon like him. The prominent Demon Hunter quickly declined this, but the Upper Rank complimented his strength nevertheless, deducing him to be a Hashira.
Kyojuro introduces himself as the Flame Hashira, while the Upper Rank reveals his name to be Akaza. He goes on to say that Kyojuro will never cross into "supreme territory" because he is human, destined to grow old and die, and again proposes he become a Demon. Tanjiro notes that Akaza smells similarly to Muzan Kibutsuji and desperately searches for his sword to help Kyojuro. The Hashira explains that growing old and dying is the fleeting beauty of humanity and that their strength doesn't lie in the body. He states that Tanjiro isn't weak and shouldn't be insulted, repeats his earlier observation of their different moral values, and firmly declares that he will never become a Demon.
Akaza readies an attack.
Akaza unleashes his Technique Development, Destructive Death: Compass Needle as he readies his fighting stance, declaring his intent to kill Kyojuro for his refusal, and the two clash. As Kyojuro uses the Flame Breathing, First Form: Unknowing Fire, Tanjiro is unable to follow their fight with his eyes, while elsewhere Inosuke senses the conflict. Akaza informs Kyojuro that all of the Hashira he had killed previously had refused his proposal and that he cannot understand their reasons for doing so. He tells the Hashira to die while he is still young and strong, and the two exchange attacks with the Flame Breathing, Fourth Form: Blooming Flame Undulation and Destructive Death: Air Type. Kyojuro quickly deduces the nature of Akaza's fighting style, deciding to close the distance to the Upper Rank.
Kyojuro and Akaza exchange a clash of techniques.
The Demon compliments Kyojuro's reaction speed, and the two exchange a flurry of blows. Akaza also compliments the Hashira's swordsmanship, stating that losing these skills would be sad, but Kyojuro denies this.
Tanjiro attempts to stand to assist his superior, but Kyojuro orders him not to move on account of his recent wounds. Akaza continues his assault on the Hashira, chiding him for paying attention to a weakling instead of focusing on the fight at hand. Inosuke arrives just in time to see the two exchange another clash of techniques with Kyojuro using the Flame Breathing, Fifth Form: Flame Tiger and Akaza using his Destructive Death: Disorder.
Despite his injuries, Kyojuro remains determined to defeat Akaza
Tanjiro looks on with concern as Akaza tells an injured Kyojuro not to die, while Inosuke notes that he cannot assist the Hashira, as he can sense that he would only be in the way. Akaza warns Kyojuro of the futility of his attacks and points out the extent of his numerous injuries, while also noting that none of this would be an issue if he were a Demon.
Kyojuro is impaled through the chest by Akaza
Tanjiro attempts to help his superior, but cannot due to the side effects of the Hinokami Kagura. Despite his injuries, Kyojuro's determination is unwavering as he prepares to unleash his ultimateattack Flame Breathing: Esoteric Art, Ninth Form: Rengoku, much to Akaza's delight. The Upper Rank responds with his own attack, Destructive Death: Annihilation Type, causing a large explosion. Tanjiro and Inosuke watch helplessly as the dust clears to reveal Kyojuro impaled through his solar plexus by Akaza's arm. The latter repeats his desire for the Flame Hashira to become a Demon, stating that he is one of the strong ones that has been chosen.
Kyojuro then has a flashback from his childhood, where his mother asked him why he was born stronger than other people. The young Kyojuro told her that he didn't know. She told him that it was to save the weak, that it was the obligation of anyone born strong to fulfill this duty, and to make sure he never forgot this, to which Kyojuro agreed. She then hugged her son, tearfully noting that she would not be alive for much longer, but that it was a blessing to be the mother of such a strong, gentle child.
Kyojuro continues his attack on Akaza despite his grievous injuries
Back in the present, the Flame Hashira swings his sword at Akaza's neck, much to the latter's astonishment. Kyojuro thanks his mother for giving birth to him, calling it an honor, and presses the attack deeper into the Demon's neck. Akaza attempts to punch the Hashira with his free arm, but Kyojuro stops it with his own, to the Upper Rank's continued shock. He then notices that the sun has begun to rise and attempts to finish Kyojuro off, but realizes that his arm is stuck in the Hashira's abdomen. Kyojuro determinedly vows to not let Akaza escape.
Akaza manages to break away from Kyojuro's grasp.
As the sun begins to rise, Tanjiro sees an opportunity to defeat Akaza and rushes towards the Demon. Desperate to escape the sunlight, Akaza struggles to free himself from Kyojuro's grip, but the Hashira's burning determination keeps Akaza trapped in place as his blade cuts his neck. Tanjiro yells at Inosuke to move for Kyojuro's sake, and the masked youth complies, rushing forward to attack Akaza.
As Inosuke prepares to utilize his Beast Breathing, First Fang: Pierce, the Upper Rank manages to escape at the last moment, sacrificing both of his arms, with Kyojuro's blade still stuck in his neck. He tries to flee into the nearby forest to escape the coming sunlight, but Tanjiro hurls his sword at the Demon, impaling him through the chest.
The young Demon Slayer angrily chastises Akaza for running away like a coward, angering the Upper Rank. Akaza looks back at Tanjiro, disgusted by his stupidity for thinking that he would be running away from them, instead of trying to evade the sunlight. Tanjiro continues his rant, stating that the Demon Slayers would always risk their lives to hunt Demons, even at night when they were at a disadvantage and unable to regrow or repair their bodies.
Inosuke and Tanjiro tremble after Kyojuro's fight.
Tanjiro calls Akaza a coward as he escapes into the forest, then proceeds to proclaim Kyojuro to be stronger and the true victor of their battle. Inosuke begins to tremble as he watches Tanjiro begin to wail, with tears streaming down his face. An appreciative Kyojuro gently tells him to stop crying, expressing his concern that Tanjiro's wounds would open up again. Kyojuro tells him that if he reopens his wounds and dies from his injuries, then Kyojuro would've lost the battle from failing to protect his comrades. He proceeds to instruct Tanjiro to come and have a final chat with him and the tearful youth complies. Tanjiro sits before Kyojuro with tears streaming down his face, as the Hashira begins to relay what he had remembered from his flashbacks.
Kyojuro encourages his juniors to live life with their chests held high.
Kyojuro suggests that Tanjiro visit his parent's house, noting that he may find information on Hinokami Kagura in the old Flame Hashira notes his father often read. A worried Tanjiro pleads for him to stop talking and find a way to stop the bleeding of his wounds, something the Hashira states cannot be done. He asks the young Demon Slayer to let him talk while he still can, and further asks him to give his brother and father messages from him. To his brother, Kyojuro states that he should follow whatever path his heart tells him to, and to his father, he asks him to take care of his body.
The spirit of Kyojuro's mother appears before him.
The dying Hashira then tells Tanjiro that he accepts his sister as a Demon Slayer, citing her heroic efforts in the Demon-possessed train. He states that anyone who risks their life in this way is a Demon Slayer, and to live life with their chests held high, unburdened by the fear of failure and death. He tells them to not worry about his death, as Hashira are meant to be the shields of their juniors, and that anyone would have done the same in his position. He then expresses his belief in Tanjiro, Inosuke, and Zenitsu, stating they will become Hashira who will support the Demon Slayers. The Flame Hashira then noticed his mother's spirit nearby and asked her if he had done everything right, to which she replies that he did a wonderful job. A grateful Kyojuro smiled and then peacefully passed away.
Some time later, Zenitsu informed Tanjiro and Inosuke of Kyojuro's heroics, in which he had used an extensive amount of his techniques to save the passengers when the train derailed. He then asked Tanjiro if an Upper Rank had really come and if they were that strong, which the youth confirmed. A tearful Tanjiro expressed his lack of strength and aid to Kyojuro's fight, wondering if he could ever be like him. Inosuke suddenly burst into the conversation, berating his comrade for his timid words, calling them pointless, and stating that they simply had to live up to their superior's expectations.
Kagaya hears of Kyojuro's death and blesses him for the afterlife.
The masked youth also informed his comrades that all creatures eventually die, and that they shouldn't shed a tear out of regret, regardless of the cause of it. Zenitsu points out that Inosuke is also crying, causing him to be headbutted by the latter, who also starts beating on Tanjiro, telling him they need to start training as a pair of Kakushi run up to the three.
The news of Kyojuro's death is then spread to Kagaya Ubuyashiki and the rest of the Hashira via Kasugai Crows, each of whom reacts differently to the grim truth. In particular, Kagaya expresses praise for his subordinate's heroic feat with the two hundred passengers of the train, and that he won't be lonely, as soon he and everyone else present with him will head to the land of Yomi.

Muzan's child form.
A group of adults discuss a special child, gifted with intelligence but cursed with a skin disease that makes him unable to go outside, who they hope to find a cure for. The boy marks his spot in the book he is reading, going to return it to the shelf as Akaza appears to make his report, addressing the youth as Muzan-sama. The disguised Demon asks the Upper Rank if he has found what they discussed, to which Akaza replies that he has not, as he could not find any reliable information about the existence of the Blue Spider Lily.
Muzan's berates Akaza for only managing to kill Kyojuro.
The Upper Rank goes on to assure his leader that he will try his hardest to live up to his expectations, noting that he killed one of the Hashira as ordered. Muzan is unimpressed and proceeds to punish his subordinate, stating that he wishes the entirety of the Demon Slayers to be purged, something that Akaza failed to do when he left the three other Demon Hunters present with the Hashira alive. Muzan further expresses his disappointment in the Upper Rank for taking a blow from a swordsman who wasn't even a Hashira, and dismisses him. Akaza does as commanded, venting his frustration on Kamado Tanjiro's Nichirin Sword and promising to kill the youth the next time they meet.
Back at the Butterfly Mansion, Zenitsu mulls over Tanjiro and Inosuke's sadness due to Kyojuro Rengoku's death, bringing the former some manjū to cheer him up. A distraught Kiyo Terauchi accidentally bashes her head into Zenitsu's, crying out that Tanjiro is missing. An apologetic Kiyo further explains to the disoriented Zenitsu that Shinobu had gotten angry at Tanjiro for training while still injured and he had been instructed to rest. Remembering the extent of his friend's injuries, Zenitsu questions his intelligence.
Kyojuro's father speaks ill of his son.
Elsewhere, Tanjiro thanks Kyojuro's crow for guiding him to the latter's home to fulfill his final wishes, noticing Senjuro Rengoku shortly thereafter. Addressing the surprised youth, Tanjiro asks him if he has heard about his brother's death, and tells him that he was given messages from his brother to relay to him and his father. Senjuro relates that he already knew about the former piece of information and asks Tanjiro if he is alright, as he looks pale.
Before any further discussion can unfold, Rengoku Sr. angrily tells Tanjiro to stop, as he has come to tell them "useless crap". He goes on to say that Kyojuro died because he became a swordsman without having any great talent, and that he was a pathetic fool of a son, to Tanjiro's astonishment.
Shinjuro declares Tanjiro to be a Sun Breathing user.
Shinjuro declares that people's powers are decided upon at the moment of their birth, that only a portion of them have talent, and that the rest are just useless trash. He further declares that Kyojuro was just as he had described, lacking any great talent and thus doomed to have died as he did. He then shouts at his son Senjuro for crying, stating that the funeral is over and asking him how much longer he is going to make that pathetic expression. Angered by all of this, Tanjiro tells Rengoku Sr. to stop talking in this manner. The older man angrily tells Tanjiro to leave, before noticing the youth's earrings, which causes him to drop his alcohol in shock.
Shinjuro explains to Tanjiro that the Sun Breathing is the original Breath.
Rengoku Sr. declares that Tanjiro is a Sun Breathing user, to which the youth responds with confusion. The older man suddenly pins the young Demon Slayer to the ground, causing Senjuro to plead for him to notice Tanjiro's apparent injuries. Rengoku Sr. tells his son to shut up, smacking him across the face. This enrages Tanjiro, causing him to knock the older man off of him. The youth demands to know why Rengoku Sr. is badmouthing his dead son and beating his only remaining son, causing the elder to demand if he is making fun of their family. Tanjiro angrily asks him why he would accuse him of such a thing, to which the Rengoku patriarch responds that it is because he is a Sun Breathing user, noting his earrings and that it was written.
Tanjiro wonders if he is talking about the Hinokami Kagura, but Rengoku Sr. explains that the Sun Breathing is the original Breath, with every subsequent Breath being derived from it. Tanjiro is still confused, not understanding if or how all of this connects with his family history. Rengoku Sr. tells the youth not to get full of himself just because he called him a Sun Breathing user, to which the latter responds by stating that he could never get cocky after what he has been through, and charges at the former in rage, telling him not to speak ill of Kyojuro. Senjuro desperately tries to warn Tanjiro that his father is a former Hashira, but the furious youth ignores this, receiving a punch from Rengoku Sr.
Enraged at the man's badmouthing of Kyojuro, Tanjiro finally lands a headbutt on Shinjuro.
Senjuro pleads his father once again to stop, but this too is ignored as the latter continues to land blows on Tanjiro. The young Demon Hunter wonders to himself why, if the Hinokami Kagura is indeed the Sun Breathing, he couldn't save Kyojuro. Twisting out of the way of one of Rengoku Sr.'s punches, Tanjiro lands a headbutt on the elder's head, much to Senjuro's shock. Later, the young Rengoku family member offers Tanjiro some tea, to which the latter apologizes for headbutting his father, asking if he is alright. Senjuro confirms this, stating that he went out to buy alcohol after he regained consciousness, and thanks Tanjiro for defending his brother, something he couldn't bring himself to do.
Senjuro wonders how his brother's final moments were, prompting Tanjiro to relate to him the entire story. The young Rengoku family member thanks him for doing so, but Tanjiro states he is sorry for not being of any use. Senjuro tells him not to worry about it, something he thinks his brother would have said as well. He goes to retrieve the book his father often reads, the one Kyojuro mentioned to Tanjiro, and returns with it: the Record of the 21st Generation of Flame Hashira. Tanjiro opens it, and the two of them are shocked by its contents.
Tanjiro and Senjuro discover the record has been destroyed.
Senjuro and Tanjiro are shocked to discover that the Flame Hashira's records have been destroyed. He proceeds to apologize to Tanjiro for his father's vandalism of the record, hindering his chances of learning about the Hinokami Kagura. Tanjiro reassures Senjuro that he doesn't need to apologize for anything, even expresses his remorse to failing to protect Kyojuro during the battle. He promises that he will work hard on his own, in order to become a powerful Hashira like Kyojuro, while holding back tears.
Senjuro is left touched by Tanjiro's resolve and expresses his resentment over not being able to succeed his brother as the Flame Hashira, but resolves to find other ways to help people. Tanjiro promises Senjuro that he would headbutt anyone who would badmouth him for his decision, but his offer is sternly declined. Before Tanjiro takes his leave, Senjuro assures Tanjiro he will continue to look into the other Flame Hashira's records while trying to restore the destroyed one, and would send a crow if he discovered something.
Shinjuro cries over Kyojuro's death.
As Tanjiro heads out, Senjuro gifts Tanjiro his brother's hand guard. Tanjiro is initially reluctant to take the guard, but he accepts it due to Senjuro's reassurance. As Senjuro returns to his house, he notices his father, Shinjuro, has returned. Senjuro tries to convey Kyojuro's message for his father, but is met with a spontaneous beration. Once Shinjuro calms down, Senjuro calmly delivers his brother's message to his father, "Please take care of your body." As Senjuro closes the door, Shinjuro immediately thinks of Kyojuro and breaks down in tears.
Hotaru attacks Tanjiro.
Tanjiro can be seen looking visibly exhausted as he heads towards the Butterfly Mansion. Once he arrives in the vicinity, he sees a dark figure standing by the entrance. Upon a closer look, Hotaru Haganezuka can be seen wielding two large knives in his hand with an ominous aura surrounding him. Realizing who it is, Tanjiro is overcome with shock was the man chases after him and is verbally berated for losing his blade. The chapter concludes with Tanjiro climbing up a nearby tree to evade the angry swordsmith.
Four months after the passing of Kyojuro Rengoku, the three boys have been training relentlessly at the Butterfly Mansion while occasionally leaving on individual missions. As Zenitsu goes on solo missions, he becomes less of a whiner whereas Inosuke becomes more reckless. Despite the unforgiving training sessions, Tanjiro remarks that they're tolerable since the three boys can endure it together.
Tengen kidnapping Aoi and Naho.
Following the completion of one of his solo missions, Tanjiro approaches the Butterfly Mansion 
to hear the screams of the young girls. Inside the property, Aoi and Naho scream to be let go after the Sound Hashira, Tengen Uzui begins to take them away while the other girls plea for their freedom. Aoi calls out for Kanao's help to save them, although she initially hesitates on what to do, Kanao chases after Tengen and grabs hold of Aoi and Naho.
Tengen looks at Kanao and tells her to obey her orders, but when she doesn't respond to him, he gets agitated and tells her to say something while calling her a "stuck-up pig." The other girls get scared by his sudden yelling but they manage to muster up their courage to swarm, and stop him from kidnapping Aoi and Naho.
Easily.
Kanao trying to rescue Aoi and Naho.
By this point, Tanjiro arrives inside the property and although he initially gets confused as to whether the girls are crowding him or attacking him, he decides to headbutt Tengen in order to free the girls. However, Tengen stealthily escapes the headbutt, revealing that he previously used to be ninja and would not let anyone land an attack that.
Tanjiro angrily demands that Tengen returns the girls while Kiyo and Sumi insult him with names, causing Tengen to get riled up at their disrespect and demand that they obey him as their "superior officer." However, Tanjiro stubbornly refuses to acknowledge Tengen as his superior causing him to explode with anger. During his fit of rage, Tengen explains that he needs female corps members in order to carry out his mission, yelling that since they aren't Tsuguko, he doesn't need to ask Shinobu for permission.
Tengen announces their journey to the Entertainment District.
Kiyo cries out that Naho isn't a corps member, so Tengen nonchalantly throws her off the roof and decides to only take Aoi. Unwilling to give her up, Tanjiro demands that he gives her up and offers to go in her place. At that moment, Zenitsu and Inosuke arrive to help protect the girls, and they also offer to go on the mission as well.
Tengen ultimately gives in and smacks Aoi on the behind before returning her to the girls. As the group of boys sets off on the mission, the ask Tengen where they're going exactly to which he responds, "the flashiest place in Japan, steeped lust and avarice." ultimately revealing that they are heading towards the Entertainment District.
The chapter begins with Tengen instructing and establishing his status as a superior to the trio of Demon Slayers. He specifically details his status as a 'god' and demands that they "bow and scrape and avert [their] eyes."
Tengen establishes his rules.
Being genuinely intrigued, Tanjiro cheekily falls for his flamboyance and asks what it is that Tengen rules over as a god. Sensing the absurdity of the scenario, Zenitsu concludes that Uzui is a sign of bad news and is also astonished by Tanjiro's naivety.
Tengen explains that he is the 'god of festivals' and upon hearing this, Inosuke brazenly introduces himself as the 'god of the mountain' and introduces himself as a fellow, leaving Tengen disgusted.
Tengen instructs the group to follow him to a wisteria-crested House where they will discuss their plans and within an instant, he sprints a large distance till he can barely be seen, leaving the group to chase after him in a panic. Once they arrive at the home, Tengen informs the group to be on the lookout for someone he can marry, which infuriates Zenitsu. He angrily tells Tengen to stop screwing around and to stop using members of the corps to be his matchmaker. Tengen blows up and yells that he doesn't need a matchmaker since he's already married, and that they're searching for his wife who failed to respond to his letters. Zenitsu doesn't believe him and tells Tengen to stop telling his "fantasies" causing Tengen to angrily wack him in the face with the piles of letters.
Tanjiro begins to sift through the letters, noticing the large quantity and comments that she must be a fast writer, to which Tengen clarifies that the large quantity is due to the fact that he has three wives. After hearing this, Zenitsu's head explodes with rage thinking that Tengen is lying, and he demands to know how he could have three wives. Tengen gets angry at his remarks and punches Zenitsu in the stomach with such force, knocking him unconscious.
Inosuke getting punched by Tengen.
Tanjiro begins to ask how they plan on sneaking into the district, leaving Tengen to explain that they will be disguised. His wives, which are kunoichi, were originally stationed there after he failed to find any leads as a customer, but after they narrowed down the possible locations of where the Demon might be, they lost communication. Overhearing the situation, Inosuke bluntly asks what if the wives are already dead, to which Tengen promptly punches him in the stomach, knocking him unconscious.
Within the Entertainment District, a majority of the workers are individuals who were sold into the business due to poverty and debt. As a courtesan, their job is to appeal and entertain customers so they can eventually find a wealthy man that's willing to buy their freedom. The highest classification of a courtesan is an oiran, who is considered to be the most artistic, beautiful, and educated and is thus only reserved for the wealthiest of customers.
The boys disguised as girls.
As the group finally arrives, Tengen uses his charming looks to try to give away the boys who are disguised as girls, and is successfully able to give Tanjiro away to the Tokito House. Tengen proceeds down the street with the other two boys in tow, with Zenitsu seething with anger at the fact that Tengen is proudly flaunting his visuals. Inosuke and Tengen notice a courtesan precession coming towards them on the street, and learn that the orian named Koinatsu is on her way to greet a suitor. Zenitsu notices the orian and angrily yells at Tengen demanding to know if that's his wife as well, earning him a punch in the face.
A woman approaches Tengen and asks him if he is looking for a house and offers to take Inosuke into the Ogimoto House, to which Tengen accepts. The chapter concludes with Zenitsu fearfully realizing that he is the only one left with Tengen.
The chapter starts off with two women at the Ogimoto House clapping for joy at how beautiful Inosuke is after removing "her" makeup. They become motivated to educate him and transform him to become the most popular orian within the district. Meanwhile in the Kyogoku House, Zenitsu is in the middle of putting an emotional performance with a shamisen after being abandoned by Tengen Uzui, and at the Tokito House, Tanjiro is assisting in doing household chores.
Koinatsu arrives at her room.
The staff ask Tanjiro to carry the oiran's belongings up to her room to which he happily complies. When he arrives at the room, he discovers two young girls gossiping inside and overhears them talking about "ashinuke". He asks them what it is, and the girls explain that ashinuke is when a courtesan runs off with a customer without paying off their debts. They go on to mention the rumor that Suma was the most recent courtesan that had ran away, which catches Tanjiro's attention. However before he can question them further, Koinatsu walks into the room and tells the girls to stop gossiping, and thanks Tanjiro for carrying her belongings.
Tanjiro meets Koinatsu.
She gives him a piece of Ame Honpo candy to express her gratitude and Tanjiro decides to ask her if the rumor regarding Suma was true. Koinatsu looks taken aback by the sudden question and asks him why he's asking her, Tanjiro momentarily panics and lies saying that Suma is his sister. His extreme honesty causes him to show a sour facial expression whenever he lies, and he ends up frightening the girls as well as Koinatsu. She again questions Tanjiro if he was sold into the house just like his "sister", causing him to uncomfortably lie that he was in fact sold and was exchanging letters with Suma. Koinatsu reluctantly tells Tanjiro that she did not believe Suma would run away, however when they discovered her diary in her desk, she had written that she was planning on running away. She also reveals that there has been no new information regarding if she had gotten caught, or if she managed to escape.
Tanjiro begins to speculate that it could be the Demon that was creating the facade that Suma had run away, and might possibly be responsible for implanting the diary. He then prays for her safety and promises to himself that he will find a way to help her. Elsewhere in the district, Tengen is seen on top of the roof observing the activity of the public. He fails to notice any unusual activity, and can't help but have a bad feeling on the lack of action, and proceeds to speculate that the Demon must be strong due to its ability to hide its presence.
Inosuke tries to listen for information.
Back at the Ogimoto House, Inosuke is starting to investigate the whereabouts of Makio and overhears two women conversing in front of Makio's room. The women begin to gossip that Makio was feeling unwell and had not left her room the whole day. Inosuke begins to speculate on the information and proceeds down the hall, however he becomes irritated at having to wear the uncomfortable kimono during the hot weather and recalls Tengen's threats. Before the boys had seperated, Tengen had threatened him to not strip or speak due to his deep voice, making it harder for Inosuke to gather information.
Inside Makio's room, an ominous voice is seen questioning a woman who she was sending letters to. A large obi-like Demon is then seen holding the woman hostage, the Demon calls the woman by her name revealing the hostage to be Makio.
While being held hostage by the Obi Demon, Makio tries to formulate a plan to try to escape. However the Demon senses Inosuke snooping in the hallway and decides to make an escape. Inosuke senses the change in the atmosphere, and rushes into the room. He discovers the room is destroyed and senses the Demon hiding in the ceiling. As the Demon tries to escape, Inosuke begins to give chase and rushes down the hallway.
Inosuke chases the Demon.
As he prepares to turn the hallway, he decides to punch the wall in order to pull the Demon out. However when he swings, a customer comes into the clearing and unknowingly gets punched into the wall. The staff look on in horror as Inosuke looks around to try to find the Demon, but to his frustration, he loses sight of it and blames the customer.
In the Kyogoku House, Zenitsu calms down after his emotional performance, and begins to search for Hinatsuru. Due to the fact that the staff is mourning the manager's death, he has had trouble collecting any information on her whereabouts. Zenitsu decides to use his advanced sense of hearing in order to listen to try to find any information, in doing so he overhears a girl quietly sobbing and rushes to find her.
Warabihime appears behind Zenitsu.
When he arrives, he discovers the room is destroyed and the young girl disheveled in the middle of it. He approaches her but she begins to sob again, causing Zenitsu to frantically try and comfort her. As he's kneeling on the ground, Zenitsu gets the chills as he senses something approach him from behind, the oiran of the house Warabihime, glares down at him and coldly demands what business he has in her room. Without turning around, Zenitsu recognizes the sound that she's giving off is not human, and realizes that she is the Demon that the Demon Slayers have been searching for.
Warabihime angrily repeats her question after Zenitsu fails to respond, and the other girls of the house explain that "she's" new to the house. Zenitsu attempts to apologize and explain that he was checking on the girl, but this angers Warabihime who rudely calls Zenitsu "ugly and creepy" leaving him shocked. Warabihime looks around to she the room is still a mess and pulls the girl who was crying by the ear, causing her to yell out in pain. The girl apologizes for failing to clean the room, but Warabihime continues to harm the girl, causing her to yell out in agony. Unable to put up with the abuse, the Zenitsu grabs Warabihime by the arm, demanding that she lets go of the girl.
Two nights before the Demon Slayers arrived at the Entertainment District, the manager of the Kyogoku House, Omitsu, holds a meeting with the oiran of her household. She explains to Warabihime that she has to restrain herself from bullying the other courtesans of the house, to which Warabihime feigns her innocence. Omitsu expresses her frustration at having ignored her behavior explaining that she's gone too far, but Warabihime guilts her by mentioning she brings the money into the household.
Omitsu confronts Warabihime.
Omitsu becomes nervous as she mentions a tale she heard from an elder when she was a child, she explains that the elder had recalled a courtesan who was extremely beautiful but had a rotten personality. The courtesan was the oiran of their household and had been around since the elder was a child and was eerily similar to the oiran the elder saw when she was an adult. Coincidentally, the oiran's names both ended in "hime" and had a nasty glare when they were displeased. As Omitsu continues to elaborate, she notices the similarities between the elder's description, and Warabihime. However before she questions the validity of her race, Warabihime transforms into her original appearance as Daki and pulls Omitsu from the house.
As the fly into the night sky, Daki eerily remarks that the people around her had managed to survive by remaining silent on the atrocities they've witnessed, until tonight. Omitsu fearfully brandishes a knife revealing her intentions to kill Daki, however she berates Omitsu for being more stupid than she believed and bids her goodbye before dropping her to her death.
Muzan praises Daki.
Daki nonchalantly lands on a nearby rooftop and struts away as the citizens discover Omitsu dead on the ground. When she returns to her room, discovers Muzan Kibutsuji awaiting and humbly greets him. Muzan comments on her appearance and speculates she's eaten a large amount of humans, he proudly congratulates her and cautions her to not act recklessly. Daki complies and receives information regarding the possible arrival of the Demon Slayers, and is encouraged by Muzan to become even stronger and crueler than she was before.
The flashback ends and returns to the present situation of Zenitsu confronting Warabihime. She becomes angry and slams him into the wall, rendering him unconscious. She openly voices her disgust and demands that he never touch her again and eerily remarks that she will administer harsh discipline. The commotion causes Omitsu's husband to rush over and apologize for 'Zenko's' actions, but begs her to forgive him as they prepare for customers. Warabihime has a sudden change of character and apologizes to the manager while he quickly orders for her room to be cleaned.
As Warabihime leaves the room, she has her doubts about Zenitsu and realizes that he isn't an ordinary human, and might possibly be a member of the Demon Slayers. In her cleaned room, she can be seen ominously laughing to herself as she openly welcomes the idea of Demon Slayers arriving to the district, promising she'll eat all of them. The chapter ends with Tanjiro looking into the night uneasily, as he comments on the "dark and murky" smell the town has at night.
The chapter begins with the manager being informed of Zenko's sudden disappearance from the Kyogoku House. The staff member explains that "she" had disappeared after being left to rest, however the mention of Zenko angers the manager and he tells the staff member to forget about Zenko. The manager chases her out before expressing his frustration at having to submit to Warabihime's desires.
Tengen informs the boys that Zenitsu has disappeared.
Elsewhere on a rooftop, Inosuke can be seen explaining the demon he saw in the Ogimoto House, to Tanjiro. His exotic description and excitement, worries Tanjiro and he tells him to calm down until Tengen and Zenitsu arrive for a meeting. Tengen stealthily arrives undetected proclaims that Zenitsu will not be arriving, he also mentions that he might've put the boys in immediate danger.
Inosuke explains the Demon Slayer Ranks.
Tengen tells Inosuke and Tanjiro that they must leave the district before the Upper Rank Demon makes their move, and announces he will be continuing the mission alone. Tanjiro tries to argue against his decision, however Tengen quickly leaves as fast as he arrived. Tanjiro begins to wonder if they aren't trustworthy due to being members of the lowest Demon Slayer rank, but Inosuke interrupts to inform him that they're climbed the ranks. He flexes his hand, and shows Tanjiro the Kanoe rank which appears, telling their status. Confused by the revelation, Inosuke explains to Tanjiro that following the Final Selection, their hands were marked with a wisteria crest. Tanjiro is left slightly embarrassed at not knowing how to check, but Inosuke promptly tells him to cheer up.
Tanjiro gets back on track and tells Inosuke he will meet him outside the Ogimoto House once night falls, claiming that he wants to finish investigating the Tokito House before he leaves, which angers Inosuke. He pinches Tanjiro by the cheek and tells him to follow him at that moment, but Tanjiro explains that there might be a secret passage hidden beneath the household that might lead to the Demon. He tells Inosuke that he thinks Tengen's wives are still alive as well as Zenitsu, and he asks him to comply in order to successfully save them. Inosuke smiles and lets Tanjiro know that he was thinking the exact same thing, and agrees to the plan.
Daki appears before Koinatsu.
Back at the Tokito House, Koinatsu has finished with her preparations and is visited by Tanjiro. He arrives without his disguise and informs Koinatsu that he is leaving the house and asks her to pass on his payment for the meals he's had. She asks why he's dressed that way, and explains that he's actually a boy while apologizing to her, but to his surprise, she claims she knew all along and wondered what he was up to. He tells her that he hopes to save the individuals who have disappeared from the house, and she expresses her relief while also saying she'll be leaving as well.
They wish each other well and say their goodbyes before Tanjiro leaves the room, but when Koinatsu hears a sound, she turns around to discover Daki standing right behind her. The chapter concludes with Tanjiro smelling the arrival of the Upper Rank Demon.
The ninju delivering Inosuke's Nichirin Blades.
At the Ogimoto House, Inosuke can be seen complaining as he waits for Tanjiro to arrive. Since their time to meet is long overdue, Inosuke becomes fed up and decides to begin the mission alone. He jumps with such force that he bursts through the ceiling, and calls for the mice to bring his swords. These mice are Tengen's servants who have been especially trained to act on missions. As Inosuke changes and makes his leave, a member of the staff can be seen with horrified expression as she sees Inosuke with his boars mask.
Tengen threatens the manager.
Over at the Kyogoku House, Omitsu's husband is seen holding a kimono in his hand. In just moments, Tengen appears in the room and holds a kunai to his throat, demanding to know the whereabouts of Hinatsuru and Zenko. The man quickly reveals that Zenko had suddenly disappeared and that Hinatsuru was sick, therefore she was sent to a low-end brothel. Tengen questions the man further, and asks who thinks is responsible for causing the trouble within the house, however the man begins to hyperventilate. Tengen reassures him that he can be trusted and will exact revenge on the individual responsible.
The man envisions his deceased wife and informs Tengen that its Warabihime who's causing the problems, he also informs him that she has the north room "where sunlight never falls." The man stops talking for a moment, and quickly turns around however by that point Tengen has already left. The man is left alone in the room, holding his wife's bloody kimono. When Tengen arrives to the room, he's discovered that the Demon is not there and is probably out hunting. He quickly leaves to search for Hinatsuru and swears he will return to defeat the Demon with his own hands.
Daki appears in Koinatsu's room.
Elsewhere, Tanjiro has discovered Daki within Koinatsu's room, as she attempts to kidnap her within her obi. Daki informs him that she will not be eating him since he is "dirty and old", meaning that only a Hashira will suffice her appetite. Tanjiro yells at her to release Koinatsu, however his demands irritate Daki and she lashes out, throwing him from the building. Tanjiro is left stunned from her immense speed and power, but he manages to regain his composure and stands back up on his feet. He begins to analyze the situation and realizes that her obi has a special power that can swallow people whole.
At that moment, Daki climbs out of the window amazed that Tanjiro is still alive. Tanjiro apologizes to Nezuko after realizing one of the shoulder straps is broken, he tells her that he has to leave her and warns her to not come out of the box unless her life is in danger. He initiates his attack against Daki by using the Water Breathing, Fourth Form: Striking Tide, Turbulent to attempt to slash at her obi. He successfully manages to perform an aerial attack against Daki, and slices off the end of the obi that was holding Koinatsu captive. The chapter ends with Daki eerily proclaiming that Tanjiro makes her sick and compares him to a dying rat, before expressing that she likes his demeanor.
Tengen's arrival at the Kirimise ward.
After arriving at one of the Kirimise houses, Tengen is seen caring for his wife, Hinatsuru. She tells him to leave her to go investigate the loud sounds heard within the district, but before he can do so, she apologizes to him for failing to complete the mission.
When she initially arrived at Yoshiwara, Hinatsuru was placed in the Kyogoku House to investigate. She realized that the Warabihime was the demon but could not make any haste decisions. In an attempt to escape and avoid suspicion, Hinatsuru drank poison and pretended to fall ill. However, she was gifted an obi by the oiran to spy on her and ultimately kill her if she did anything suspicious.
Tengen comforts Hinatsuru and tells her she did well during the mission, revealing the defeated obi in the background. He advises her to leave the district as soon as the antidote takes effect to which she agrees and they embrace.
Tengen uses Roar to enter the cavern
As Tengen leaves the houses and heads back to the battlefield, he tries to listen for the sounds of the Demon and hears the vibrations coming from an underground cavern. He pulls out his blades and uses Sound Breathing, First Form: Roar to slam onto the floor causing a large explosion, which can be heard by Daki in the distance.
She questions Tanjiro as to how many Demon Slayers are in the district but he refuses to tell her. She tries to strike a deal with him that if he answers her question, she will spare him while simultaneously trying to intimidate him. Daki mentions Tanjiro's chipped sword as as the fact that he has started shaking again, causing him to question his credibility as a Demon Slayer.
He begins to discredit his ability to perform the Water Breathing, compared to Sakonji and Giyu. Tanjiro mentions that he needs to rely on the Hinokami Kagura in order to land powerful blows, but lacks in the ability to perform multiple strikes with it. However, he regains his focus and encourages himself that his training should pay off, he mentally envisions Kyojuro's voice telling him to "Keep [his] heart burning" and manages to perform Hinokami Kagura: Raging Sun to block Daki's obi.
Daki notices the change in his fighting style as Tanjiro cuts off a large section of her obi, as she tries to analyze this change, Tanjiro suddenly bursts towards her. He swings his blade down using Hinokami Kagura: Flame Dance to try and decapitate her, but she narrowly avoids it. As Tanjiro tries to attack her again, Daki gains the upper hand and tries to decapitate Tanjiro with her obi, however Tanjiro utilizes Hinokami Kagura: Fake Rainbow to escape.
Daki is left confused, trying to locate where Tanjiro has disappeared to, but within seconds Tanjiro appears behind her and utilizes Hinokami Kagura: Fire Wheel to attack her once again. The chapter concludes with Tanjiro's blade making contact with Daki's neck.
Following his sneak attack from the previous chapter, Daki manages to quickly deflect Tanjiro's attack and sends him flying into the ground. He tries to continue his attack, however he is left exhausted from his use of the Hinokami Kagura and has trouble getting up. As Daki quickly approaches, Tanjiro manages to use the recovery breathing technique to overcome his technique and narrowly avoids Daki's attack. He goes on the offense and attacks Daki, however her obi gets in the way preventing him from defeating her, leaving him with no choice but to raise his body temperature even higher.
Tanjiro recalls an interaction he had with Kiyo Terauchi at the Butterfly Mansion. She begins to worry over Tanjiro's uncontrollable fever, and tells him that she needs to inform Shinobu. Tanjiro tries to reassure that he's fine and to not tell Shinobu, however Kiyo mentions that his fever has been at 100.4 degrees over several days, and it could mean something is wrong. He confesses to her that he's been training with the Hinokami Kagura in order to improve his skills and begs her to hold on a bit before reporting to Shinobu, Kiyo reluctantly agrees but tells him that she will only wait a bit.
Tanjiro uses Hinokami Kagura after remembering his comrades.
Back in the battle against Daki, Tanjiro begins to gasp as the Hinokami Kagure begins to take a toll on his body, but he refuses to let up in order to protect the people of the district. He uses his determination to promise that he won't allow Daki to take another life, and cause people to go through the sadness he and his comrades had to experience. His breath fumes out from his mouth as he prepares to attack Daki yet again.
Inosuke discovers the underground tunnel.
Earlier at the Ogimoto House, a member of the staff can be seen frantically approaching other women, as she claims to have seen a monster. The women are left confused at the woman's unusual claim and she explains that she saw a boar monster destroying the ceiling and the floor. Elsewhere in the house, Inosuke can be seen cackling as he discovers a hole leading to a "Demon Nest." He proudly yells at the hole to prepare itself before trying to dive in headfirst. After realizing that only his head fits, he takes it as a challenge and begins to snap his body, claiming he can dislocate the joints in his body. All while frightening the daylights out of the staff that's observing him. He manages to slither through the opening, and travels through the tunnel until he reaches the main cavern.
The women trapped in the obi.
Once he arrives, he discovers the long trails of the obi draped throughout the cavern. As he takes a closer look, he can see multiple people being held captive within the obi and discovers Zenitsu knocked out among them as well. As he tries to wake him up, the obi begins to move demanding to know why Inosuke is there. The chapter concludes with Inosuke being disgusted by the worm-like obi.
Inosuke begins his assault against the Obi by slicing sections of it while simultaneously insulting it. The women who were held captive begin to slip out from the sections, causing the obi to panic at the situation. The obi analyzes Inosuke's natural abilities and has trouble formulating a plan, however Daki's conscious takes control, and she orders the obi to capture him alive. As Inosuke prepares to slice another section, the obi suddenly becomes more elastic, and folds along Inosuke's blade.
Inosuke attacks the obi.
Before the obi can attack him, Inosuke gains the upper hand by maneuvering to perform Beast Breathing, Sixth Fang: Palisade Bite, however the obi manages to distract him. The obi mentions Inosuke's failure at protecting the individuals he's freed, claiming that it can easily just swallow them up again. It proceeds to move towards the unconscious individuals, however a Kunai flies in out of nowhere, causing the obi to retract.
Makio and Suma escape the obi.
Two women appear holding Kunai and agree with Inosuke's description of the "worm-like" obi, and begin to attack it. They explain to Inosuke that they're there to help him and will protect the others from the obi. Inosuke reluctantly agrees but asks them who they are, to which they reveal they're Tengen's missing wives, Suma and Makio.
Makio begins to scold Suma who sulks after revealing she was the first one who was captured, she also begins to cry as she realizes that they can't help everyone and are most likely going to die. The obi seems pleased by Suma's pessimistic attitude and questions who it should eat first, but before it can get the chance to attack, Zenitsu quickly attacks the obi. Amazed by his skill, Inosuke comments that he probably shouldn't wake Zenitsu up and Suma and Makio question his identity.
Tengen arrives in the cavern.
The obi is left amazed by Zenitsu's speed but tries to understand the sounds it heard, it specifically mentions that there were two sounds like thunder. One sound came from Zenitsu, but when the obi finally recognizes the source of the second sound, the ceiling explodes and breaks down.
Suma looks up into the distance and a silhouette can be seen from the individual who dropped into the hole. Tengen brandishes his blades as he takes a deep breath, and within seconds, slashes the obi within his vicinity. Makio turns around and calls out to Tengen, who apologizes for taking too long. The chapter concludes with Tengen promising that things are "about to get real flashy."
Makio recalls her past as Tengen arrives at the large cavern. As a young adult, Makio lived the lifestyle of a kunoichi and was often taught to survive instead of try to accomplish the mission. These ideals were again reiterated into her mindset when she married Tengen, who would tell his wives to always prioritize their lives and return to him alive. He would make sure to let them know that he would take responsibility to protect the public, after protecting them. Makio would often question if his morals were right, however Hinatsuru would reassure her that wanting to live was not immoral.
Tengen encouraging his wives.
Back in the cavern, Tengen greets his wives by patting them on the head and compliments the great work they put in, causing them to tear up as Suma holds on to him and cries. Inosuke calls out to the ""god of festivities" and gets mad at him for allowing the obi to escape, but Tengen loses his temper and defends his wives saying that they saved the people that were trapped. Makio interrupts him to say that they need to leave immediately before things get worse, and he quickly instructs everyone to follow him.
Daki transforms as her obi returns.
Now on the rooftops, Tengen sprints towards the battle field as Inosuke and Zenitsu struggle to catch up. In the middle of the battle between Daki and Tanjiro, the obi comes flying and unexpectedly enters Daki's body. Tanjiro realizes that the obi is returning to Daki's main body and tries to attack her, but she quickly disappears. She reappears on a nearby rooftop as her hair turns white, she squeals with delights as she learns there's a Hashira within the district. At that moment, a bystander discovers Tanjiro acting suspiciously on the street and tells him to stop fighting in front of his shop. Daki overhears the man and becomes enraged by his comment.
Tanjiro becomes enraged by Daki's actions
She lashes out a flurry of attacks on the buildings around her and ends up cutting off the man's arm in the process, she also manages to kill other bystanders in the nearby houses. Tanjiro sees the bloodshed nearby and tells the man to tie a tourniquet around his arm, despite bleeding heavily himself.
Daki begins to walk away after destroying the houses, but Tanjiro tells her he won't allow her to get away with it. Daki cockingly tells him to stop speaking to her since he is just another rotten corpse. The chapter concludes with Tanjiro's heart beginning to beat louder and louder as his eyes fill with rage.
Tanjiro recalls a letter that was addressed to him by Shinjuro Rengoku, who admits that he had wronged him. In the letter he thanks him for mourning Kyojuro's death, as well as for befriending Senjuro and proceeds to express his embarrassment for his behavior when they first met. He explained that he was wallowing in sorrow over the death of his wife and incompetence as a Hashira that he turned to alcohol. Despite his lack of presence as a father, Kyojuro had proven himself to be a better son that he was by managing to become a Hashira, even after Shinjuro had refused to continue teaching him. Shinjuro writes in his letter that Tanjiro is gifted with a power and is destined for greatness as seen from the Demon Slayer Mark he was born with. However, Tanjiro clarifies that Shinjuro is wrong because he wasn't born with the mark.
He recalls getting the mark when he was protecting his younger brother from a falling brazier, and it then changed in appearance during the Final Selection. Unlike his father who was born with the mark, Tanjiro simply acquired it meaning he wasn't a chosen one, nonetheless he refuses to back down.
Daki sees the vision of a Mysterious Swordsman from Muzan's memories.
As Daki walks away from him, Tanjiro quickly grabs her and narrowly cuts her neck, but she manages to avoid the attack and back away from him. She loses her foot in the process, but her regeneration skills allow her to develop a new one within seconds. Tanjiro notices her regeneration and asks Daki why she steals people's lives and ruins them, his tone of voice comes off as familiar to Daki and she envisions a different swordsman before her. Although she doesn't recognize the swordsman, Daki realizes that she is envisioning Muzan's memories. Tanjiro continues to question her reasoning and taunts her with the fact that she was once a human who endured hardships as well.
Daki's Blood Demon Art.
Daki becomes enraged by Tanjiro's comments and smashes her first into the roof tile, demanding that he stop rambling about the past since she is now Demon. Daki proceeds to glorify the privileges of being a Demon, seemingly mocking the circumstances that humans face. Having heard enough from her, Tanjiro approaches Daki to make an attack but she defends herself using her Blood Demon Art: Eight-Layered Obi Slash to keep him from closing in.
Her confidence grows as Daki believes that she is now untouchable due to the fact that she has returned back to her original form, she bids Tanjiro farewell and begins to think about going after the Hashira. However, Tanjiro utilizes the Hinokami Kagura: Burning Bones, Summer Sun to burn the obi blocking his path. Daki is left stunned by her wounds and inability to regenerate to the point where she begins to shake, and is left to defend herself from Tanjiro's flurry of attacks. He closes in and swings his blade to decapitate her, but she continues to resist as her neck transforms into an obi, refusing to be cut.
Tanjiro’s blade can been seen struggling as it tries to cut through Daki’s obi-like neck. The resisting cloth forces Tanjiro to abandon his attack and escape before Daki has the chance to fight back. However when he tries to recollect his thoughts, Daki charges towards him and tries to slash him. Tanjiro analyzes her movements and has realized that he can see her in slow motion, giving him the advantage. As her wild obi attacks him from multiple directions, Tanjiro manages to pin them all in a single spot and proceeds to charge at her while cutting away at the obi.
Tanjiro slashing Daki's obi with Hinokami Kagura.
His flames burn the obi away, and within seconds he comes in to a close proximity to Daki. However just when he is about to decapitate her, Tanjiro envisions his sister Hanako desperately begging her brother to breathe. In that moment Tanjiro loses his focus and begins gasping for air after nearly passing his physical limitations. He collapses onto the ground, finally feeling the pain that he had been suppressing, and his eyes begin to bleed. It is revealed that he had been acting on anger and had been using his "life force" to surpass his limitations, however his sister was able to warn him before he could sustain any life-threatening damage.
Hanako trying to warn Tanjiro.
Daki glares down at Tanjiro and berates him for his weakness as a human, she mocks his injuries and slowly approaches him to deliver the final blow. Before she can deliver the attack, a leg comes down and kicks Daki hard behind rupturing her head. Nezuko can be seen boiling with rage as she stands between Tanjiro, whos struggling to breathe on the ground, and Daki. Nezuko recalls the memories of when her family was slaughtered on that snowy night and her rage grows stronger, as she prepares to fight the Upper Rank Demon. Daki's head and face begins to regenerate as she glares holes into Nezuko, she recognizes her as the Demon Muzan Kibutsuji had told her about. Nezuko's face begins to transform as her infinite anger begins to push her forward, leaving the reader wondering what would happen in Nezuko's case, begin a Demon with no physical limitations.
Back when Muzan Kibutsuji arrived at the Kyogoku House to see Daki, he had told her to find the Demon who had escaped his grasp like Tamayo. He identifies her as having a hemp patterned kimono as well as a checkerboard obi and tells Daki that she is his last hope to catch Nezuko. Now in the present, Daki promises that she will kill Nezuko and lay her down at Muzan's feet as proof. Nezuko faces Daki and charges to once again try to kick off Daki's head, however Daki is able to cut off Nezuko's leg using her obi. While Nezuko looks down at her bleeding thigh, Daki uses the opportunity to knock her off of the roof, and blast her into a nearby building.
Tanjiro envisions Takeo.
As the two Demons are fighting, Tanjiro falls unconscious and envisions his brother, Takeo. In his dream, Takeo mentions how Tanjiro and Nezuko are very alike when they're kind and angry, and goes on to recall an instance when he saw Nezuko get angry. He explains how fearful he was when he saw her and was worried about her lack of concern for herself, mentioning that within an instant, she could've lost everything she holds dear.
Nezuko transforms.
Back in the fight, Daki jumps down from the rooftop and approaches Nezuko whose trapped underneath a pile of rubble. She mocks her for being weak and being a half developed Demon, since she hasn't eaten any Demons. Daki continues to provoke her and cockily says that she will not fight Nezuko anymore, and will simply leave her trapped and expose her to the sun instead. However before Daki can say anything else, Nezuko comes out from the rubble and regenerates her leg in an instant, leaving Daki stunned at her abilities. Nezuko proceeds to instantaneously regenerate her arm, which was cut off as well, leaving Daki uneasy as she realizes that her regenerative abilities are on par with an Upper Rank Demon. Nezuko's body transforms as she breaks her bamboo muzzle, a horn grows out of the right side of her forehead and her body also becomes covered in ivy-like demon crests. Daki gets more intimidated by Nezuko's change in aura and she tries to defend herself from one of her kicks, successfully cutting it off with her obi. However before she can cut Nezuko's head, Daki is still smashed into the ground by Nezuko's kick.
Daki is shocked as Nezuko's leg pierces through her body, pinning her into the ground. She tries to make sense of how Nezuko could've attacked her with the leg she had just sliced off, but lately realizes that Nezuko had instantly regenerated her leg within that moment, admitting that Nezuko's regenerative abilities are greater than her own.
Nezuko begins to slip into a state of mania following her transformation. As Tanjiro still remains in his state of unconsciousness, Takeo desperately taps him on his back begging him for help. He tells Tanjiro to please wake up and help Nezuko who isn't acting like herself anymore, forcing Tanjiro to awaken with concern.
As Daki remains pinned on the ground, she uses her obi to try to free herself from Nezuko's hold. Her obi effectively severs multiple limbs from Nezuko's body but before she gets a chance to scoop them up, Nezuko's severed hand grips onto her obi. Her limbs remain connected by her unusually solidified blood, with some of the blood falling onto Daki. In an instant, Daki is set on fire by the blood causing her to scream out in agony.
Nezuko's limbs wind back to reattach to her body and they self cauterize each cut, she proceeds to forcefully stomp down on Daki's head causing it to erupt in flames. Nezuko continues to stomp multiple times on her head before she kicks forcefully kicks Daki through a nearby building, and into the one behind it. As she follows Daki to continue her assault, Nezuko comes across an injured woman who stares at Nezuko with fear, as she tends to her bleeding wound. Nezuko falls into a trance and charges into the home towards the woman, as she fails to suppress her hunger for blood.
Tanjiro tries to restrain Nezuko.
Out of nowhere, Tanjiro jumps on top of Nezuko and uses his blade to act as a muzzle in order to restrain her. He yells at her to fight the hunger and encourages her to be strong, but she lashes out at him and scratches him on the face to try to escape. He apologizes to her for making her fight after smelling the blood that spilled from her injuries, he proceeds to reassure her that her big brother is now there to protect her and that she can now heal herself. Nezuko manages to regain her footing and she jumps through the ceiling with Tanjiro on her back, causing an intense amount of damage to the house. As Tanjiro struggles to restrain his sister, the walls of the room are seemingly slashed as Daki barges into the room with her burned face.
Daki's burnt appearance.
She is seen teething with anger as she is forced to regenerate her burned body, and angrily approaches the siblings. Tanjiro becomes conflicted on what to do as he realizes that there are nearby bystanders he needs to protect, but also needs to defend Daki's attack without releasing Nezuko. As Tanjiro makes his decision to protect the public, Tengen Uzui suddenly appears before him and expresses his surprise at Nezuko's "flashy" demonization.
Tengen goes on to comically berate Tanjiro for speaking highly of Nezuko's ability to restrain herself back at the Ubuyashiki estate, despite him struggling to restrain her now. Daki sees Tengen and excitedly reacts to Hashira arriving before her, but is coldly told to shut up. Tengen tells her to scram and says that she is too weak to be an Upper Rank Demon.
The chapter concludes with Daki's decapitated head falling onto her lap leaving her stunned as to what had just transpired.
Nezuko cries after Tanjiro's lullaby makes her come to her senses.
Tanjiro is left shocked by Tengen's swift victory over Daki, but the Sound Hashira reminds him that the fight isn't over, as his sister is still out of control. Tanjiro struggles to restrain her, with Tengen suggesting he sing her a lullaby to put her to sleep. At that moment, Nezuko regains her footing and jumps out of the window, taking her brother with her as they continue to struggle. Realizing his words aren't reaching her, Tanjiro asks his mother what he should do, and then remembers Tengen's earlier advice to sing Nezuko a lullaby.
He begins to sing her a song that their mother had sung in the past, and while her actions remain unchanged at first, his lullaby soon reaches her. Nezuko remembers asking their mother about the song when she was a child, causing her to break down in tears. Nezuko comes to her senses and changes from her advanced demonized form back into her regular child-like state, promptly falling asleep. Tanjiro lets out a relieved sigh as he successfully holds Nezuko in his lap.
Daki begins to throw a tantrum over Tengen denying her Upper Rank status.
Back in the house, Daki screams at Tengen for cutting her head off, and he responds by telling her to die quietly. The enraged Demon reminds him that he had denied her Upper Rank status, which he affirms, but she proceeds to insist her status, much to his annoyance.
Emerging from her body, Daki's brother confronts Tengen.
To the Hashira's astonishment, Daki begins to throw a tantrum and cry, and he notes that she has been talking for far too long when she should have showed signs of dying. Still throwing her tantrum, Daki calls out to "Gyutaro" to save her and a male Demon begins to emerge from her body. Tengen senses the danger and attempts to immediately attack the two, but his blades hit nothing but air as the Demons disappear from his sight. On the other side of the room behind Tengen, Gyutaro comforts Daki, asking that she at least try to reattach her own head. Tengen wonders why Daki is still alive after being beheaded, as well as the presence of the new Demon, who he comments as having great reaction speed. Gyutaro tells Daki to heal her burn, complimenting her good looks, and wounds Tengen when he attempts to attack them again.
Gyutaro compliments Tengen's attempt to attack him as well as his success at blocking his attack. He reveals that he was intending to kill Tengen with that attack and eerily prepares to him on in a battle.
Within the Entertainment District there are men known as "gyu's" or barkers, who work to attract customers to enter the brothels. Gyutaro worked as one of these men, and eventually used the word "gyu" as a part of his new name. Inside one of the brothels, Gyutaro and Tengen are about to engage in combat, but before they do so, Gyutaro begins to analyze Tengen's appearance. He comments about his nice face, good skin, and height, mentioning that he must attract a lot of attention from women. Gyutaro begins to eerily scratch at his face until he begins to bleed and voices his jealousy over Tengen's looks.
In the corner of the room, Daki can be seen crying as she whines at Gyutaro to kill the other Demon Slayers who burned her as well. She proceeds to tell him that they "ganged up" on her and she tried her hardest to kill her, causing Gyutaro to seethe with anger. Using two large sickles, he creates a flurry of large arc-like slashes aiming them towards Tengen.
Elsewhere in the district, Tanjiro can be seen carrying Nezuko as he rushes to put her away to safety. He looks up into the sky and sees the sickles return back in the direction that they came like a boomerang; he becomes concerned when he smells Tengen's blood and rushes to return to help. At that moment, Inosuke and Zenitsu can be seen prancing towards him as they comically announce their arrival. Tanjiro quickly informs them to help Tengen and Inosuke reassures him that he's going to be "reeeeal" flashy, before pardoning Tanjiro to put Nezuko in her box.
Gyutaro using his Blood Demon Art.
Back at the brothel, Gyutaro seethes with jealousy after witnessing how "cool" Tengen looks by protecting the bystanders within the home, causing Tengen to brag about his appearance and marriage to three women. Gyutaro pauses in astonishment before furiously scratching his face after hearing of Tengen's polygamy, he proceeds to use his Blood Demon Art: Flying Blood Sickles to try to kill the Hashira, but Tengen manages to block it. A large explosion causes the floor beneath Tengen to give in, and he manages to escape by dropping down one floor. However, Gyutaro commands his sickles to turn, and they come straight for Tengen.
Daki fights alongside Gyutaro.
By this point, Tengen has realized Gyutaro's ability to change the sickles direction and tries to formulate a plan on how to defeat the siblings. He theorizes that in order to kill the Demons, he would need to cut off Gyutaro's head instead of Daki's and he tries to test it out. Tengen grabs 3 small balls and throws them into the air, he proceeds to aim for them and precisely hits them to cause an explosion within the brothel.
As the brothel begins to crumble, Tengen is seen standing on the rubble as he admits it won't be easy to defeat the Demons. He looks at the large obi ball before him, and the siblings emerge unscathed as they confidently proclaim that they "fight as one".
After successfully finding the box and returning Nezuko inside, Tanjiro quickly tries to return to the battlefield in order to assist Tengen Uzui.
Tengen becomes fed up with Gyutaro's comments.
Back at the battlefield, Gyutaro scowls as he mentions Tengen's supreme abilities, calling him different and talented compared to the other Hashira he's killed. His comments somewhat irritate Tengen and he berates him for thinking that he's talented compared to other people on the planet, calling him ignorant. He grows more and more angry as he recalls the people he's lost over the years despite being called the supposed "chosen" individual by Gyutaro. After listening to him speak, Gyutaro grows irritated at the fact that he has not died yet, revealing that his poison drenched sickles should have killed him.
Tengen explains that he has built a resistance to poison as he was raised in a shinobi household with nine siblings, but by the age of fifteen, seven of them had already died. His father was a cold and heartless individual who would regularly forced them to undergo intense training and as a result, his brother adopted the same ruthless and cold hearted personality. Unable to understand that type of mindset, Tengen left his clan alongside his wives, and approached Kagaya Ubuyashiki to become members of the Corps. Kagaya had warned them it would be hard to reject the values they were raised in, but openly welcomed and thanked Tengen's family for deciding to put their lives at risk to protect others.
Tengen attacks the siblings.
In the present, Gyutaro notices the deterioration in Tengen's physical state and becomes gleeful when he realizes that his poison is slowly taking effect. Tengen proceeds to refute his claim saying that he is still in pristine condition and charges forward to attack the siblings. As they engage in a battle, Tengen manages to kick Daki away from Gyutaro and releases numerous dark beads which cause a cluster of explosions. By setting a distraction, Tengen attempts to decapitate Gyutaro while only hold the tip of one end of his blades but it is promptly blocked by the Demon.
As both sides reassess the situation, Daki is left whining as she pathetically reattaches her head to her body once again. Gyutaro confronts Tengen about discovering the method on how to defeat them but he feigns his innocence pretending not to notice.
Zenitsu and Inosuke arrive to assist in the battle.
Despite Tengen's discovery, Gyutaro cockingly says that despite knowing their weakness, Tengen will still die from the poisoning since the Demons have the advantage in the battle. At that moment, Zenitsu and Inosuke arrive to question the validity of Gyutaro's claim that they're going to win. The two boys flamboyantly announce their arrival to the fight which confuses everyone at the moment, but then Tanjiro drops down from the ceiling above them and stands between the injured Tengen and the Demons, preparing to fight.
Makio and Suma can be seen frantically trying trying to evacuate the citizens of the district as the battle resumes against the Demons. Gyutaro tries to discourage and the three new arrivals and manages to intimidate Tanjiro, however Tengen Uzui comes up behind them and proudly announces that they're going to win. As Daki finishes reattaching her head, she loudly doubts his words by saying that they can't win since the Hashira has been poisoned.
Tanjiro envisions Kyojuro when Tengen speaks.
Unfazed, Tengen once again proudly announces their intent to win and speaks highly of the three boys. Looking back at him, Tanjiro sees the persona of Kyojuro Rengoku emitting from Tengen as he speaks which excites Inosuke.
Gyutaro attacks Tanjiro.
Gyutaro and Daki get riled up and reveal that they've eaten 15 and 7 Hashira respectively, and begin to attack the group. As Daki attempts to attack Tengen and Tanjiro from behind, Zenitsu bursts through the home within seconds to block the attack as Inosuke follows him. Now on the rooftop, Daki finally recognizes Zenitsu from the Kyogoku House and he demandingly commands her to apologize to the girl whom he had found crying earlier. She mocks his speech by revealing that women are treated like merchandise within the district and as the orian, she was allowed to do as she pleased with other people since she was the main breadwinner of the house. When she looks up at Zenitsu, a third eye appears on Daki's forehead revealing that Gyutaro can see them via her new eye.
Zenitsu and Inosuke face Daki.
Back in the brothel, Tanjiro becomes intimidated by Gyutaro's evil aura but formulates a plan to counter his attacks and protect Tengen. However, the Demon manages to rush towards Tanjiro within an instant and catch him off guard, narrowly piercing him through his jaw. Before he can do so, Tengen grabs Tanjiro by the nape of his clothes and throws him to safety before engaging in battle with Gyutaro.
As he crash lands and looks back to see the two fighting, Tanjiro senses an ominous object approaching them from above, and Daki's obi can be seen crashing down all around them. On the rooftop, Daki can be heard cackling as she admits she is now displaying her full strength since Gyutaro is awake and allowing her to used his enhanced senses. Zenitsu and Inosuke can be seen covered in cuts and wounds as they prepare to engage with Daki in battle. The chapter concludes with Gyutaro disregarding Tengen's claims of the boys being Tsuguko, undermining their capabilities as swordsmen.
Tengen using String Performance.
The Demon Slayers can be seen engaging in battle with the two Demons of the Entertainment District, fighting ferociously on the rooftop and inside one of the brothels. As the building begins to collapse, Tengen Uzui finds himself getting cornered between two of Gyutaro's attacks however Tanjiro jumps in and manages to protect him from the slashes. Tengen proceeds to use Sound Breathing, Fifth Form: String Performance to try to corner Gyutaro, but Daki's obi interferes and protects her brother from the attacks.
Hinatsuru using her Kunai box
Tengen begins to be pushed back by the obi, however Tanjiro moves in to cut the obi and tries to distract Gyutaro. The Hashira is left amazed at Tanjiro's endurance despite suffering a serious shoulder wound and realizes that Tanjiro had tied his sword to his hand to prevent him from dropping it due to exhaustion. Meanwhile on the rooftop, Inosuke and Zenitsu can be seen struggling as they try to evade the attacks from Daki's obi. The boys realize that Daki is know attacking them with the blood blades used by Gyutaro, making it impossible for them to approach her.
Now that the brothel has been destroyed, Tengen and Tanjiro are left to fight Gyutaro and the obi beneath the night sky. On a nearby rooftop, Hinatsuru appears carrying a large box filled with kunai darts and proceeds to launch dozens of them down below onto Gyutaro. At first he is left confused behind the random attack, but then Gyutaro utilizes his Blood Demon Art: Rampant Arc Rampage to deflect them away from him.
Gyutaro using his Blood Demon Art.
Gyutaro is left shocked when Tengen proceeds to attack him despite getting pierced with the darts. He attempts to decapitate him with his sickle, however Tengen manages to evade his attack and successfully cut off his legs. At that moment, Gyutaro is struck on the neck by one of the kunai darts and fails to regenerate his feet, realizing that the darts were coated with wisteria extract.
As his body begins to go numb, Tanjiro closes in on him to try to decapitate Gyutaro, leaving him seething with curiosity as the Demon Slayers quickly gain the upper hand.
The kunai darts which were utilized by Hinatsuru were revealed to be coated in a poison which would generally paralyze a Demon for half a day, or possibly immobilize a Lower Rank. She can be seen on a nearby rooftop pleading for the poison to work for even just a moment, as the Demon Slayers attempt to decapitate Gyutaro. However at that moment, Gyutaro manages to regenerate his legs and proceeds to attack them at a close vicinity.
Gyutaro uses his Blood Demon Art.
He uses his Blood Demon Art, Rotating Circular Slashes: Flying Blood Scythes to emit numerous blood slashes to attack them. Before they can reach him, Tengen Uzui grabs hold of Tanjiro and throws him back to protect him from the attack. Within seconds, Tengen uses Sound Breathing, Fourth Form: Constant Resounding Slashes to deflect Gyutaro's attack but finds that he has disappeared from sight. To his horror, he looks up to the roof, only to see that Gyutaro has managed to capture Hinatsuru and is about to kill her.
Tanjiro saves Hinatsuru from Gyutaro.
Tengen tries to save her however Daki's obi blocks him from reaching her. He thinks back to a moment in the past when Hinatsuru had asked to retire from the Corps following their mission, specifically remembering her asking to not harbor any regrets if any of them were to die. Back in the present, Tengen yells at Gyutaro to stop as he tries to push through. Tanjiro comes close to the building and tries to use the Hinokami Kagura to reach her however his body refuses to listen to him. Tanjiro quickly changes tactics and uses a form of the Water Breathing to quickly save Hinatsuru from Gyutaro.
Realizing that he managed to save Hinatsuru, Tanjiro decides to utilize both the Water Breathing as well as the Hinokami Kagura in order to increase his attacking power. Gyutaro is left surprised by Tanjiro's unexpected maneuver and charges at him. However at that moment, Tengen comes behind Gyutaro and swings his blade at Gyutaro's neck while openly yelling that he owes Tanjiro.
On a nearby rooftop, Inosuke can see Tengen move in as he attempts to cut off Gyutaro's head. His frustration grows as they continue to evade Daki's attacks instead of move in to try to decapitate her. Zenitsu calls out to Inosuke and explains that in order to defeat them, they just need to make sure their heads aren't connected instead of trying to decapitate the two simultaneously. Inosuke comically looks at Zenitsu amazed and calls him awesome after seeing the difference in his personality compared to his usual demeanor.
Gyutaro catches Tengen's blade in his mouth.
Meanwhile, Tanjiro assists Tengen by also trying to swing his blade down onto Gyutaro's neck, however the Demon manages to use his sickles to halt both of their attacks and attempts to absorb their blades. Tengen uses his free arm to use his second blade to pierce the Gyutaro, but his quick reflexes allow him to catch the tip of the blade in his mouth. Sensing that Gyutaro is about to unleash more blood blades, Tengen tells Tanjiro to hang in there as Hinatsuru yanks Tanjiro away from them, allowing Tengen to leap off of the roof while pulling the Demon with him.
Before he can leap down to help them, a voice can be heard telling them to watch out as Inosuke and Zenitsu crash onto the roof while fighting the obi. Inosuke and Zenitsu ask Tanjiro for help in order to defeat Daki, and agrees asking that they finish quickly in order to help Tengen. Hinatsuru tells the boys that she will hide quickly in order to allow them to focus on the battle, and disappears as they face Daki.
Inosuke, Tanjiro and Zenitsu attacking Daki.
She gets excited when Tanjiro joins their fight and informs his comrades that they need a fast attack in order to cut her neck. Inosuke realizes that she has slowed down and decides to go first to attack as Zenitsu agrees with Tanjiro to protect him from behind. Inosuke proceeds to dash forward using Beast Breathing, Eighth Fang: Explosive Rush while Zenitsu and Tanjiro use Thunder Breathing, First Form: Thunderclap and Flash, Eightfold and Water Breathing, Third Form: Flowing Dance respectively, to protect Inosuke from the obi.
Daki begins to crack under the pressure as Inosuke close in on her, and manages to draw both of his blades on either side of her neck. Inosuke buries his heels into the ground as he uses Beast Breathing, Sixth Fang: Palisade Bite to effectively decapitate Daki. Tanjiro smiles with joy as he witnesses Inosuke leap and catch Daki's head in the air, rejoicing at successfully cutting off her head. Inosuke claims they have to act fast and keep her head separated from her body.
Having successfully decapitated Daki, Inosuke can be seen escaping with her head in order to prevent her from reattaching it to her body. He tells the other boys not to worry about him and to instead help Tengen, but before he can get to safety, Daki uses her hair to put up a resistance.
Gyutaro stabs Inosuke to rescue his sister.
He manages to put a stop to her resistance but before he can get away, Gyutaro appears behind him and impales him through the chest. Tanjiro looks on in horror as Gyutaro grabs Daki's head while Inosuke collapses on the roof, he then looks down on the ground and is once again horrified to see Tengen laying bleeding and unresponsive on the ground. Zenitsu tries to warn Tanjiro of the oncoming obi attack, but before he can escape, the roof collapses from beneath him and Tanjiro falls to the ground seemingly buried beneath the rubble. As he falls unconscious, he apologizes to everyone and specifically to Nezuko for losing the battle.
Nezuko appears while Tanjiro is unconscious.
In his dream, Nezuko can be seen telling him to stop apologizing for any faults in their lives or for feeling unworthy. She reassures him that it isn't his fault that their lives were ruined and tells him they'll work together to make a better future for themselves. Nezuko begins to cry as her body morphs from her human form to her Demon form and she pleads for him to never apologize for any regrets and tells him she understands how he feels.
Tanjiro awakens from his dream and tries to recollect his thoughts but before he gets up, Gyutaro can be seen standing over him, questioning if he's still alive. Gyutaro takes it upon himself to tell Tanjiro that Inosuke was pierced through the heart, Zenitsu was suffering and trapped beneath the rubble, and Tengen's heart had stopped due to the poison. He proceeds to refer to all of them as pathetic and asks Tanjiro how the Demon in the box is related to him, and he responds by saying she's his younger sister. Gyutaro begins to laugh at Tanjiro's pathetic attempt to protect his sister and tells him he should be using his hands, before proceeding to break his fingers.
Tanjiro makes a final effort to escape.
As Tanjiro withers on the ground in pain, Gyutaro proceeds to berate him for his weakness and pulls him by the hair. He teases Tanjiro and tells him to try to decapitate him, but instead of attacking him, he slaps his hand on a small bag and hangs his head down in defeat. Believing that he broke Tanjiro's fighting spirit, he reveals his grand idea of offering Tanjiro the opportunity to become a Demon for the sake of his sister. Tanjiro suddenly looks up into the sky and Gyutaro asks him if he's trying to hold back his tears but to his surprise, Tanjiro responds that he had been preparing for the moment.
With his face gets close to Gyutaro's, Tanjiro brings his head down and headbutts him with a great force momentarily stunning him. Daki screams at him to get up but as his legs falter, and looks down to discover that a kunai dart has been lodged into his leg. He realizes that when Tanjiro had looked down, he opened a bag given to him by Hinatsuru which contained wisteria poison. Tanjiro manages to stand up while Gyutaro remains paralyzed and crouched before him, and uses his remaining strength to swing the blade down onto his neck.
Having regained his footing and subdued Gyutaro, Tanjiro manages to draw his blade onto Gyutaro's neck and press down to try to decapitate him. As he try to forces the blade down, Tanjiro envisions himself in Gyutaro's place and thinks that if he were in his situation, he would want his comrades to kill him before he could live as a Demon.
Zenitsu escapes from the wreckage.
On a nearby rooftop, Daki can be seen rushing to her feet at the sudden change of events to try to help her brother, but before she can get close to them, Zenitsu manages to free himself from the rubble. He attacks her by using Thunder Breathing, First Form: Thunderclap and Flash to bring her attention to him and then uses Godspeed to quickly attack her neck. Zenitsu pleads with his blade to cut through her neck, since he was given the chance to escape the rubble and attack her while Gyutaro was subdued.
Tengen protects Tanjiro from the sickle.
Tanjiro continues to struggle to try to cut through Gyutaro's neck but before he can do so, Gyutaro manages to emit his blood blades to repel his sword. Tanjiro is knocked off balance as Gyutaro regains his footing, causing them to reengage in battle. Gyutaro gains the upper hand and brings his sickle down onto Tanjiro's neck, however at that moment Tengen, regains his consciousness and protects him from the sickle.
Despite being severely poisoned and missing his left hand, Tengen engages in head to head combat with Gyutaro while remarking that he's perfected the Musical Score Technique. It is revealed that his technique allows him to analyze maneuvers of his opponents and read them like notes on a piece of sheet music. However the poison has hindered his attacking ability meaning that he can only defend Gyutaro's attacks.
Tanjiro gets stabbed through the jaw.
Gyutaro manages to land a powerful attack to the left side of Tengen's face resulting in the loss of his left eye, and proceeds to stab Tengen. Tanjiro yells out to Tengen after witnessing him get stabbed, but Tengen orders him to ignore him and jump. Tanjiro leaps into the air towards Gyutaro and attempts to decapitate him, but is seemingly stabbed through the jaw by Gyutaro's sickle. The Demon begins to panic as they gain the upper hand and pulsate his poison to try to kill Tanjiro, however he proceeds to endure the pain, and swings his blade towards Gyutaro.
At the beginning of the chapter, it is revealed that the Demon siblings were able to keep the Demon Slayers at bay through a hidden ability. During the battle, Gyutaro was controlling his sister and was able to see through her point of view, giving them the advantage. His poison also affected the Demon Slayers greatly, but there was always a member of the team that would slip through, allowing them to continue the fight.
Tanjiro's Demon Slayer Mark emerges as he attacks Gyutaro.
Tanjiro can be seen swinging his blade down onto Gyutaro's neck, despite the Demon's sickle piercing through his jaw. His arm strength isn't enough to slice through his neck so he resorts to forcing his entire body to push through, ignoring the pain. Gyutaro notices the change in Tanjiro's scar as he develops a Demon Slayer Mark and his eyes roll back in his head. The change in his demeanor proves to be too great as Tanjiro's blade cuts through Gyutaro's neck, causing him to panic.
Inosuke assists to decapitate Daki.
Meanwhile, Daki can be seen resisting Zenitsu's attempt to decapitate her. She attempts to use her obi to kill Zenitsu at close range, but Inosuke unexpectedly rushes up revealing that he protected his heart from being stabbed by rearranging his organs. He also reveals that poison has no effect on him since he was raised on the mountains, before proceeding to assist Zenitsu in decapitating Daki.
The three boys let out a roar as they muster out the strength to slice through the Demons necks. After the long battle, Zenitsu and Inosuke manage to decapitate Daki up on the rooftop while Tanjiro can be seen decapitating Gyutaro simultaneously on the ground. Their heads fall onto the ground and roll around until they end up face to face.
The Demon heads are decapitated.
As Gyutaro's body falls onto the ground, Tengen notices something being emitted from it and becomes alarmed. Meanwhile up on a nearby rooftop, Suma, Hinatsuru, and Makio have arrived to witness the end of the battle. Suma makes an offhand joke about Hinatsuru being dead and watching from beyond, causing Makio to smack her across the head, Hinatsuru notices something is amiss down on the battlefield.
She looks down to see Tanjiro struggling to breathe as he bleeds out from his jaw, while trying to slow down the poison. Tanjiro looks over at Tengen who's sitting down in front of him and yelling at him with a panicked expression. However, Tanjiro fails to comprehend his sudden alarm as Tengen looks at him with horror.
Underneath the night sky, Nezuko can be seen looking down at her brother with a concerned expression. As Tanjiro begins to regain consciousness, he looks around to see the destroyed buildings around him. Nezuko nudges her brother as a way of letting him know that she was the one who saved him from the destruction.
Tanjiro attempts to get up to search for the others, but his legs give out from beneath him and he collapses onto the ground. He hears someone calling out to him in the distance and recognizes the voice as belonging to Zenitsu, and is unexpectedly picked up and carried by Nezuko. The pair move towards the source of the commotion and discover Zenitsu has awakened from his slumber, not remembering any of the events that had transpired. He tells Tanjiro that he can hear Inosuke's heartbeat get weaker and weaker and points to him laying unconscious nearby.
Nezuko heals Inosuke by setting him on fire.
The siblings rush over to him and Tanjiro attempts to wake Inosuke up, but to his dismay he feels his heart get weaker. Tanjiro begins to panic and thinks of exposing him to sunlight, or sending a crow to Shinobu for help but realizes he doesn't have time for either of the options. His tears begin to well up as Inosuke lays dying before him, but Nezuko comes forward and unexpectedly sets Inosuke on fire. Tanjiro looks on amazed as he witnesses Inosuke's poisoned skin heal right before his eyes, and his comrade suddenly awakens to announce he's hungry. The three rejoice at the fact that he's okay and embrace as Tanjiro begins to sob.
Elsewhere on the battlefield, Suma begins to wail loudly while pleading for Tengen to live after winning the battle. Her co-wife, Makio, begins to panic as she realizes the antidote they administered is not working to remove the poison from his body, and Hinatsuru begins to weep. Realizing that he doesn't have much time left to live, Tengen begins to relay his final words to his wives, but is interrupted by Suma's loud wails. Makio becomes enraged at Suma's overreactive cries and begins to pull her by the hair and shove rocks into her mouth to make her be quiet, while Hinatsuru tries to prevent them from bickering. In a comical fashion, Tengen sits spectating as his wives continue to bicker while his final moments slip away, he then realizes that he can no longer move his speak due to the poison.
Nezuko sets Tengen on fire.
Everyone momentarily pauses when Nezuko suddenly appears next to Tengen, they proceed to stare at her as she raises her hand and grabs his arm, before setting him on fire. His wives look on in horror until Suma comically pulls Nezuko away, saying that its too soon to cremate him. To their surprise, Tengen begins to speak again and asks how its possible that the poison has been removed from his body, bringing relief to his wives. Tanjiro subtly explains that Nezuko's Blood Demon Art has somehow managed to remove the poison from their bodies and expresses his relief to know that Tengen is safe. Tengen tries to tell Tanjiro to rest if not he will die from his injuries, but he informs Tengen that he needs to confirm that the Demons have been defeated before he can rest.
The Demon siblings begin to argue as they disintegrate.
The siblings proceed throughout the rubble in search of the Demon's heads, and come across a pool of Demon blood. Tanjiro pulls out an apparatus and decides to collect the blood in order to be studied. Once the blood has been collected, Tamayo's cat familiar, Chachamaru, appears before Tanjiro and he puts it in the box to be delivered to Tamayo.
As the siblings continue their search, Tanjiro smells the scent of the Demon's and guides Nezuko to head towards them. When they arrive, Gyutaro and Daki can be seen viciously arguing over their defeat. Their heads begin to disintegrate as they blame each other for losing the battle, with Gyutaro degrading Daki for being useless. Daki retaliates by saying that someone as ugly as Gyutaro cannot be considered her relative, which leaves Tanjiro looking at them concerned about the hurtful words they are spewing at each other.
Tanjiro intervenes in the Demon siblings' argument.
Daki and Gyutaro continue arguing as their heads begin to disintegrate, she starts chastising her brother for being useless and questions if they're even related. Gyutaro grows angry at her comments and calls her a weakling, even regretting protecting her in the first place. He loses his temper and goes on to spew hateful remarks such as mentioning that his life would've been better without her and wishing that she had never been born, causing Daki's eyes to well up with tears. Tanjiro intervenes and covers Gyutaro's mouth, stating that he doesn't mean what he's saying and that they shouldn't spend their final moments fighting with each other.
Daki begins to wail at Tanjiro out of frustration, yelling at him to leave them alone and stop lecturing them. Daki's head reaches its last phases of disintegration and she cries out for her brother to save her, saying that she doesn't want to die. Gyutaro hopelessly watches as her head dissolves away while still calling out him, before he impulsively calls out to her by her birth name, Ume.
Gyutaro remembers his past as a human born in the Kirimise to a prostitute mother.
As he reaches his final moments, Gyutaro remembers his past as a human born in the Kirimise to a prostitute mother. Before she died from syphilis, his mother tried to kill him many times, even after his younger sister was born. Due to his appearance, his voice and lack of hygiene, the young Gyutaro was bullied and detested by everyone he met. Things began to change after his sister was born, as her beauty dismissed his inferiority complex, and he used his ugliness, plus his newfound fighting skills, to become an efficient debt collector.
Gyutaro returns from a job, only to find his sister horribly burned due to the actions of a vengeful samurai.
However, the good fortune would not last for the siblings. When Ume turned 13, she blinded a samurai with a comb, and was subsequently burned alive for her crime. Having been away on his job at the time, Gyutaro returned to find her barely alive, and hugged her as she clinged to life. He cursed the gods to return his sister and for treating them cruelly, before he is attacked by the same samurai. The samurai slashes Gyutaro from behind, allowing him to bleed out at he chats with one of the brothel managers.
The manager brazingly calls Gyutaro a nuisance and a brute for harassing the locals of the district, before expressing her pity at having lost Ume as a courtesan. Before the samurai could finish him off, Gyutaro viciously kills the manager, and berates the samurai for having a lavish lifestyle before gruesomely killing him as well, by snapping his katana and slicing his head in half with his sickle. As Gyutaro tried to find help for him and his sister, no one would help them due to their reputation and circumstances. He trudges on through the street until he ultimately collapses and bleeds out on the floor, as snow begins to fall. The siblings lay on the floor dying, until they are discovered by one of the Upper Ranks, who offers to turn them into Demons. Gyutaro adamantly proclaims that he would become a Demon again, no matter how many times he is reborn, wanting to always bring fear as "Gyutaro the Debt Collector".
Having made up, Gyutaro and Daki continue forward into the hell.
Gyutaro muses how Daki could have been if he had raised her differently, before taking note of his surroundings. A younger looking Daki appeared behind him, disgusted with their current location and wondering where the exit was. Gyutaro ordered her not to follow him anymore, getting angry when she wouldn't comply. A tearful Daki apologized for her earlier cruel insults, stating that it was because she had not wanted to accept that it was her fault that they had lost. When Gyutaro still refused to let her come with him, Daki tackled him from behind, stubbornly refusing to ever let go, vowing to always be his little sister no matter how often they are reborn, and reminding him of the promise they had made long ago to always stay together. Finally accepting her company, Gyutaro carries his sister into the hell that awaits them.
Hearing the news about the defeat of one of the Upper Ranks, Kagaya is determined to see Muzan defeated in his generation.
In the world of the living, Tanjiro and Nezuko watch as the last of the Demon siblings dissolves into the air. Tanjiro wonders if they made up, which Nezuko affirms. Elsewhere, Obanai Iguro attempts to praise Tengen for his defeat of Upper Rank 6, but is disappointed that he beat such a low ranking member of the Twelve Kizuki, as well as lost his left arm and eye. Tengen states his intention to retire as a Hashira, but Obanai refuses to accept this, as there is already a vacant Hashira position and the lower ranks of the Demon Slayer Corps keep on dying without improving. Tengen disagrees with this last point, stating that Tanjiro is definitely improving, while Obanai is surprised he survived the fight.
Elsewhere, Kagaya Ubuyashiki learns of the group's victory and is elated, but is stricken by complications from his illness. He states that this victory will have massive consequences, enough to ensure Muzan Kibutsuji's defeat within their generation, and then collapses into a bout of coughing. At the Infinity Castle, Akaza ponders how his summoning must mean a member of the Upper Ranks has been defeated.

Akaza looks on with displeasure as the Biwa Demon plays her instrument, and is greeted by one of his Upper Rank colleagues, Gyokko. The potted Demon asks him how he's been after ninety years, and proclaims his insincere worry over Akaza being the slain Upper Rank. Hantengu corrects his colleague, as it had actually been one hundred and thirteen years since they had last been summoned, and expresses his concern over the oddity and unluckiness of the number. Ignoring them, Akaza asks the Biwa Demon if Muzan had arrived, the answer being no, and then asks if Upper Rank 1 had arrived. Before she can answer, Doma places a hand on Akaza's shoulder, asking him to show some concern for his well-being, as he did not wish to see any of his "precious buddies" die.
Kokushibo at the Upper Rank meeting
Gyokko and Doma exchange small talk about the former's pot and latter's use of the pot that Gyokko had given him. Akaza demands that Doma remove his hand, viciously punching him when he doesn't immediately do so. Quickly recovering from the blow, Doma pleasantly asks if Akaza had gotten stronger since they last met, enraging the tattooed Demon. The Biwa Demon finally relates that Upper Rank 1 had been the first to arrive, surprising Akaza, who quickly spotted his silent colleague. Kokushibo noted that he was present, as was their master. As each Upper Rank reacted to the silent arrival of their leader, Muzan noted that Gyutaro was dead.
Muzan informs the Upper Ranks that Gyutaro has been killed.
Doma apologized for Gyutaro's failure, wondering what punishment Muzan would give him, but the ancient Demon declined all of his suggestions, having already anticipated Upper Rank 6's defeat. He further commented that he didn't expect anything from them, which Doma questioned, as he did not believe he had ever failed to live up to his master's expectations. Muzan countered by stating that the Ubuyashiki family had yet to be killed and the Blue Spider Lily had yet to be found, making him question why the Upper Ranks even existed. Each of the Upper Ranks offers some excuse for this failure, save Akaza and Gyokko. The latter offers Muzan some information he claims will get him closer to achieving his goals.
Akaza viciously destroys Doma's head.
Swiftly beheading the Upper Rank, Muzan berates Gyokko for speaking of change, as he is only looking for permanence. He adds that he is "at the height of displeasure" due to an Upper Rank being killed for the first time in over a hundred years, further berating Gyokko for attempting to give him unconfirmed information. He demands that the Upper Ranks serve him with "suicidal devotion" from that moment on, orders Gyokko to head over with Hantengu if he can confirm his information, and then leaves. Doma approached Gyokko, asking to join him on his mission, and then has the upper portion of his head destroyed by Akaza. The Upper Rank 3 ordered him to get lost, as Muzan had not given him any orders.
Kokushibo wished Akaza luck before departing from the meeting.
Akaza looks in disbelief as his arm is sliced off by Kokushibo. Doma attempts to defend his subordinate, but Kokushibo still reprimands Akaza for his actions as they soil the relationships between the Upper Ranks, advising him to battle Doma for his spot as Upper Rank 2 instead if he truly is bothered. After hearing this suggestion, Doma interrupts and asserts that Akaza wouldn’t be able to raise his rank, given how much more powerful he was despite becoming a Demon much later than him, a fact that likely contributed to Akaza’s rage. He continues on, describing how he allowed Akaza to use violence on him as a way to get along with him.
Kokushibo ignores Doma and asks Akaza if he understood what he meant. Akaza confirms, declaring that he will definitely defeat him one day, receiving a word of good luck from his superior as he leaves the fortress. Doma tries to start a conversation with Akaza, but he also ignores him as he exits. Gyokko then asks Nakime to send him and Hantengu to their next destination, in which the Biwa Demon complies to. She additionally sends Doma back to his cult when he tries to talk to her, after which he mopes over his colleagues’ unfriendliness.
Sumiyoshi apologizes to his friend.
Somewhere else, a man is seen sitting in a house as another individual, Sumiyoshi Kamado, brings him tea and some food. The man thanks his friend for the hospitality, in which the latter apologizes for his wife being asleep and his child having to be babysat by a guest. He tells him not to worry about the situation and that he shouldn’t continue receiving meals for free from his friend. Sumiyoshi denies this, revealing that his family was saved by him and their lives were thanks to him. He also offers to pass down his guest’s tale as he didn’t have any successors, even if his family were just simple coal-burners.
Kanao finds that Tanjiro has woken up.
Sumiyoshi is gently turned down by his friend, as he states that his heritage will find its way back itself and that no matter what, it will return. He then says that, despite Sumiyoshi viewing him as powerful, he was unable to protect what was important to him and had little worth.
Tanjiro internally begs the man to not think of himself like that and cries as he wakes up from the dream, heavily bandaged and hooked up to multiple IVs. He tries to figure out where he is and is suddenly interrupted by a falling vase. Kanao stands in shock at the doorway and reveals that Tanjiro had been unconscious for two months, tearfully stating that she’s glad he’s awake.
A Kakushi named Goto is seen walking down the halls of the Butterfly Mansion. As he walks through the corridor, he reveals that two months have passed since the end of the battle at Yoshiwara, Tokyo and remembers how badly the swordsmen were injured, specifically Tanjiro Kamado. He brings a plate of castella with him, hoping the smell might help wake up Tanjiro from his two-month coma.
When he walks into the room, he discovers a shattered vase on the floor and is quietly infuriated. He announces that he has brought a dessert and asks Kanao Tsuyuri to clear a space so he can set it down. Tanjiro weakly thanks Goto for the dessert as Kanao observes him. Goto stands silently over Tanjiro's bed and loses his grip of the plate. After a moment's hesitation, he angrily bursts out at Kanao for not saying a word about Tanjiro regaining consciousness, insubordinately berating Kanao in a comical manner before going into the hall to alert Kiyo, Sumi, Naho, and Aoi.
The three young girls shed tears of joy after discovering that he had awakened, but are then immediately frightened when Aoi comes crashing into the room after having gotten caught in the laundry. After untangling herself, she begins to sob at his bedside. Tanjiro inquires on the status of his comrades, finding out that Zenitsu had awoken the day after the battle and had just left, screaming and crying, before going on a job. Tengen, the Sound Hashira, left after the battle with his wives despite his terrible injuries, with his toughness scaring the Kakushi.
Inosuke appears on the ceiling above Tanjiro.
However, when Tanjiro asks about Inosuke, he is told by Aoi that he had been horribly poisoned and that Inosuke was on the verge of death. Tanjiro responds subtly and wonders if he is hallucinating, as he spots Inosuke hanging on the ceiling. Everyone in the room then looks up in horror to witness Inosuke crawling upside down on the ceiling. He loudly praises 'Tanpachiro' for noticing him on the ceiling, to which Tanjiro comments that he is facing the ceiling. Inosuke drops down onto Tanjiro's bed, then brags that he woke a week before him and how he had poison resistance, making him resistant to medicines.
The three girls protest for Inosuke to get off the bed, and tell him that he is not normal as quoted by Shinobu. Kiyo goes on to show Tanjiro an image of a honey badger, saying that it has a thick, armor-like hide that allows it resistance to poison, which is what Inosuke is like in Shinobu's eyes. After listening to their conversation, Inosuke gloats about having an apparent 'immortality' and is swiftly corrected by Goto that he is simply just a moron. A fight ensues between the two and Aoi rushes to break it up, yelling at Inosuke to be careful and to stop forgetting important information that he is told.
Inosuke's poison resistance compared to that of a honey badger.
As the bickering gets louder, Kanao tries to quiet the room down until she has to yell at the others to be quiet as Tanjiro had fallen back asleep. Inosuke immediately worries that Tanjiro has returned into a comatose state, but the others assure him that he just needs to rest.
A week goes by with Tanjiro making a full recovery and Inosuke embarking on a new job. While Tanjiro works on improving his weakened state, he asks Kiyo and Naho about his new sword. The girls are hesitant to inform him that Hotaru had only sent letters thus far, and they show him the angry scrawlings of hate which clearly depict that the swordsmith would not make Tanjiro another sword. Now distraught, Kiyo tries to uplift Tanjiro by saying that Hotaru is being the difficult one, and he should try to meet him at the Swordsmith Village to discuss in person.
Tanjiro arrives at the Swordsmith Village.
Tanjiro eagerly requests permission to visit the village, which Kagaya allows. He sends a Kakushi to take him and she informs him that in order to keep the village safely hidden, Tanjiro must be carried there and will need to put on a blindfold, earplugs, and nose plugs. Throughout the journey, Tanjiro is frequently passed onto a new Kakushi, while the crows are also swapped in an effort to maintain the location's secrecy.
Once Tanjiro arrives at the village, he is amazed by the scents of the hot springs. He loudly shares his gratitude towards the Kakushi for transporting him, which echoes loudly throughout the hot springs. His voice is eventually heard by the Love Hashira, Mitsuri Kanroji, who is bathing in a nearby spring.
After arriving at the Swordsmith Village, Tanjiro is greeted by the village’s chief, Tecchin Tecchikawahara, who dubs himself the best of his craft in the village, and Tanjiro bows down before him at his request. Tecchin discloses to Tanjiro that the village is currently looking for Hotaru Haganezuka after he disappeared a few days prior. Tanjiro comments on his swordsmith’s "cute" name, which Tecchin reveals that he himself gave him that name, but Hotaru strongly dislikes it. The chief notes about how Hotaru had always had a bad temper and when Tanjiro attempts to apologize for fueling this temper through breaking his swords, Tecchin refutes it by stressing Hotaru should be making a sword that wouldn’t break. He reassures Tanjiro that they will bring Hotaru back, or, alternatively, have a different swordsmith forge his new blade. The two part with Tecchin suggesting Tanjiro relax in the hot springs.
Genya at the hot springs.
While advancing to the springs, Tanjiro runs into Mitsuri Kanroji, who had just returned from bathing. The Love Hashira complains about how she was ignored when she asked for an individual’s name at the spring, upset about the disrespect. Tanjiro calms her by revealing that the villagers were almost done with the dinner for their guests, which Mitsuri excitedly hurries off to.
At the springs, Tanjiro is suddenly hit with a tooth and is surprised to encounter Genya Shinazugawa. He excitedly jumps in the water and tries to converse with his fellow Demon Slayer, but is saddened after Genya angrily strikes him and storms off.
Mitsuri playing with Nezuko.
Back at the village, Tanjiro praises Mitsuri for the amount she is capable of eating, declaring that he himself would also try to eat lots and grow strong. He then brings up Genya, with Mitsuri sadly observing how the boy must be Sanemi Shinazugawa’s younger brother given that they share a last name, despite the Wind Hashira telling her he didn’t have one. Tanjiro asks why she felt it was pitiful, and, while playing with Nezuko, Mitsuri replies that she herself had five younger siblings and had good relationships with them. The two chat and both hope to someday be able to have a nice conversation with Genya, and Tanjiro decides to bring him leftovers since he didn’t come to dinner.
As they walk through a corridor with Nezuko, Tanjiro inquires Mitsuri on the reason why she joined the Demon Slayer Corps. Embarrassed, she states that she wanted to find a man to marry, someone who was stronger than her and could protect her. As she goes on about her thoughts, Tanjiro listens to her in disbelief.
Mitsuri whispering to Tanjiro about the secret weapon.
The trio are approached by a Kakushi, who informs Mitsuri that her new sword would be ready soon and that Mitsuri should check it out so that it could be adjusted if necessary. The Hashira bids farewell to Tanjiro and praises him for his hard work, expressing her approval for the siblings. After Tanjiro declares that he will be sure to defeat Muzan, Mitsuri happily hints about a 'secret weapon' hidden in the village that could make him stronger.
The next day, Tanjiro searches through the forest looking for Hotaru and ponders about the secret weapon Mitsuri told him about. In the distance, he suddenly sees two individuals, one of them being the Mist Hashira, Muichiro Tokito.
Behind the trees in the forest, Tanjiro worriedly watches a young child yell at the Mist Hashira, proclaiming that he wouldn’t hand over his key and his knowledge to him. Muichiro suddenly strikes and grips the boy, much to Tanjiro’s horror as he races over to restrain Muichiro’s wrist in an attempt to force him to let go.
Tanjiro protecting the boy from Muichiro.
Despite having a smaller and thinner body composition than Tanjiro, Muichiro does not budge and asks for Tanjiro to release his hold, quickly punching him in the stomach and calling him weak. The Hashira senses a Demon in Tanjiro’s box, but he slaps his hand away and saves the boy in the process. When the boy continues denying Muichiro the key, he insults him and other swordsmiths, stating they had no worth besides making swords and this conversation was currently wasting him time that could be used to save people.
Angry at Muichiro’s degrading words, Tanjiro hits him and expresses how he was too cruel to the child. While he states that he does not deny the accuracy of his words, Tanjiro stresses the importance of swordsmiths and how they, too, are fighting along with the Demon Slayers, albeit not on the front lines. Muichiro cuts him off and hits him in the neck, knocking him out cold. Right before losing consciousness, Tanjiro notices Hotaru Haganezuka behind a tree.
Yoriichi Type Zero in action.
While unconscious, Tanjiro hears a conversation between the child and Hotaru, but the latter runs off as soon as Tanjiro begins to regain consciousness. After picking himself up, Tanjiro excitedly inquires whether Hotaru was just there, which the boy nervously denies. The boy also reveals that he gave the key to Muichiro, in which Tanjiro apologizes for intervening as it wasn’t his place to. He is thanked, however, for standing up to the Hashira in order to defend a complete stranger. The two converse, and the boy informs Tanjiro about the key’s use, which is to operate a deteriorating mechanical doll that had been built by his ancestors and was used for swordsmen to train.
In the middle of their conversation, the two suddenly hear loud sounds. The boy leads Tanjiro over to where Muichiro is intensely training with the battle doll, dubbed Yoriichi Type Zero.
While watching Muichiro Tokito train against the mechanical doll, Tanjiro looks at the doll's face and ponders the idea that he has seen it before. He asks the young boy why the doll had six arms, in which he is told that as it was modeled after a real swordsman, the doll's six arms were necessary to imitate his movements. Tanjiro tries to push for more information, but the boy apologizes and states he didn't know much else, besides that it originated in the Sengoku period. Surprised, Tanjiro notes how that must mean Yoriichi Type Zero is over three hundred years old and even so, it still hadn't been destroyed. The boy replies that his ancestors were able to construct the doll at a level that couldn't be accomplished again at the present time—hence its durability—and he wouldn't be able to fix it himself especially without the aid of his late father, given that he doesn't possess the knowledge or skills to do so. Hearing this, Tanjiro understands the reasoning behind his resolve to not hand over the key to someone that could potentially break the doll.
Muichiro's crow praises his abilities.
The two observe Muichiro for a while longer and Tanjiro admires the Hashira's uncanny degree of skill, despite being of similar age. Muichiro's Kasugai Crows chips in and loudly praises her master's abilities, referring to him as a descendant of the Sun Breathing users and a genius completely different from Tanjiro. Amazed at his bloodline heritage, Tanjiro curiously inquires why Muichiro wasn't able to use the Sun Breathing, which receives him an angry assault by the crow. While he is being attacked by her, Tanjiro suddenly remembers the dream he had and how the swordsman he saw had a face that matched that of the doll's. Hearing his words, the crow stops and grumpily questions the logic behind his words, given how the swordsman was from so long ago. The young boy pitches in, proposing that perhaps it was a memory that was passed on, providing the example of a swordsmith "inheriting" memories of their swords and skills from ancestors, suggesting it may be similar to what Tanjiro was experiencing. The crow thinks of this idea as nonsense but is cut off as Tanjiro introduces himself to the boy, and the boy introduces himself as Kotetsu.
Muichiro destroys part of Yoriichi Type Zero.
Suddenly, the group hears a sound and witness Muichiro destroying parts of the doll, with pieces of its armor flying away. Devastated at the sight, Kotetsu runs away and hides in a tree, crying over the broken doll. Tanjiro finds him and attempts to motivate him by saying he'll eventually be able to improve and fix it, in which Kotetsu replies that he is too pathetic to do so. Tanjiro climbs up the tree and flicks Kotetsu as a method of snapping him back into reality, exclaiming how he had to make the effort and develop the skills so that even if he wasn't able to fix Yoriichi Type Zero, the generations after him would. Tanjiro compares his struggle with Kotetsu's, affirming that even if he dies before he is able to accomplish his goals, someone else will eventually be able to do so in his place so long as the framework is set. Cheered up, Kotetsu and Tanjiro conclude to determinedly work hard together.
Yoriichi Type Zero moves into a stance.
While they chat during a walk through the forest, they encounter Muichiro again who expresses that the training was helpful; however, his sword broke, so he will be taking one of the doll's swords. He tosses the broken sword indifferently to Tanjiro, asking him to discard it. Although confused by the swordsman's attitude, Tanjiro notes he lacked a malicious aura and likely wasn't acting rudely on purpose.
A storm brews overhead as Tanjiro rushes to Kotetsu, who appears aloof while staring at the broken doll in the rain. Tanjiro suggests they check if it can still move, which is met by approval from the boy. As they pick it up, it remains stagnant for a few moments before suddenly shifting into a stance, much to Tanjiro's excitement. Kotetsu then fiercely orders him to train with the doll and become stronger than Muichiro with his aid, surprising him.
Kotetsu proposes a variety of insults Tanjiro could use once he becomes stronger than Muichiro, but Tanjiro refuses the thought and tells himself he has to become stronger. He begins to train with Yoriichi Type Zero, with Kotetsu’s analytical skills and newfound motivation being used to excessively critique the Demon Slayer’s movements. He declares that until Tanjiro can accomplish what he wants, he won’t receive food.
Kotetsu adjusts the doll by twisting its fingers.
Kotetsu shows Tanjiro another method of adjusting the doll's movements through twisting its fingers—such that it’d coordinate with its users’ weaknesses—and compares the actions to that of playing with a wooden puzzle box. After readjusting the doll, Tanjiro continues brutally training with it without food, water, or sleep under Kotetsu’s direction, because the latter does not understand the limits of a human.
Just as Tanjiro approaches the brink of death, analogous to nearly crossing the Sanzu River, he becomes capable of smelling the incoming movement of the doll and lands a hit on it, earning him his first meal. After gaining this ability to predict movements, Tanjiro continues to train it and improves his stamina and foresight.
A sword's hilt emerges from Yoriichi Type Zero.
In the middle of a spar with the doll, Tanjiro’s newly improved abilities grant him an opening to behead it, however, he hesitates mid-swing and worries about breaking the doll. Kotetsu yells at him to strike, reassuring him that he would be able to fix it. Internally, the young boy begs Tanjiro to not waver so that one day, he will become stronger than anyone else.
With Kotetsu's approval obtained, Tanjiro succeeds in landing a blow to the doll’s neck and breaks his training sword in the process. He apologizes to Kotetsu for the ruined sword and, after Kotetsu's sudden exclamation, Tanjiro turns to see a sword’s hilt emerging from the doll’s body where its head used to be.
A sword's hilt appearing out of the broken Yoriichi Type Zero startles Tanjiro Kamado and Kotetsu, who shout in shock. Their surprise quickly shifts to fascination and excitement as the pair attempts to deduce the age of the blade. Kotestu urges Tanjiro to take the sword, but Tanjiro is adamant on the fact that he could not and that the doll breaking to make it appear wasn't completely his doing. Kotetsu insists that as the owner of the doll, he has the final say and that Tanjiro should take it, especially considering how he needed a new blade anyways.
The blade's rusted appearance.
Caving in, Tanjiro pulls out the blade as Kotetsu watches excitedly in anticipation, but they are crestfallen after seeing the blade had rusted with its age. Kotetsu tries to apologize to a tearful Tanjiro for getting his hopes up, but they are suddenly interrupted by a muscular Hotaru Haganezuka emerging from the woods. Hotaru mentions that he heard their conversation and tries to take the sword from Tanjiro and Kotetsu, who resist. They try to get Hotaru to explain his motive, but the swordsmith continues to try to take the sword and finally forces it out of their hands.
Kozo Kanamori appears behind Hotaru and tickles his sides, making him fall limp. Kozo greets Tanjiro and Kotetsu and goes on to explain Hotaru's situation. He states that Hotaru had been remotely training in order to improve his forging skills so he could make a strong sword for Tanjiro, in which the Demon Slayer happily admires Hotaru's thoughtfulness. Kozo continues on, saying how Tanjiro's repeated requests for swords from Hotaru made him happy, as he lost many of his clients with his personality.
Hotaru declares that he will fix the rusted sword.
Amidst their continuous chatter, Hotaru suddenly regains consciousness and confidently declares that he will fix the rusted blade. Kotetsu fusses over how he could've just easily explained before they fought over the sword, which results in an angered Hotaru lifting Kotetsu by the neck. The next day, Tanjiro talks about Hotaru's progress on the sword with Genya Shinazugawa, who, angered by Tanjiro's presence and attempts at friendliness, tries to get him to leave. When he starts yelling, Tanjiro notices that the tooth he had pulled out a few days ago had reappeared. He questions him on this and shows the tooth he had picked up as proof, disgusting Genya and resulting in him being kicked out of the room. Saddened, Tanjiro ponders his fellow Demon Slayer's consistent anger.
Hantengu appears at the Swordsmith Village.
Later that night, a swordsmith strolls through the village after a bath and encounters a pot on the ground. Curious, he reaches for it but is suddenly engulfed by the pot, killing him. Gyokko, the Upper Rank Five, emerges and comments on the poor quality of the swordsmith as a meal. Elsewhere, Upper Rank Four Hantengu cowers on a roof and states they must quickly accomplish their mission.
An asleep Tanjiro Kamado is woken by Muichiro Tokito pinching his nose. The Mist Hashira questions Tanjiro if he knew Kozo Kanamori's whereabouts, as he was his new swordsmith. Tanjiro mentions that he was likely with Hotaru Haganezuka and offers to help find them. Muichiro asks why Tanjiro would willingly accompany him when he had other things to be doing, and Tanjiro replies he believes helping others would positively benefit him.
At Tanjiro's words, Muichiro feels a strong sense of familiarity and questions him on what he had just said. The Demon Slayer tries to reply, but is hit by an awakened Nezuko, breaking Muichiro's perception. Seeing Nezuko, Muichiro comments on her uniqueness and wonders where he'd seen her before while Tanjiro worries about Chachamaru, Tamayo's feline assistant, appearing before them.
Hantengu enters the room.
The trio keep thinking about their respective worries, and Tanjiro and Muichiro sense a presence behind the doors. When they glance over, Hantengu crawls into the room without radiating his presence as a Demon. Tanjiro and Muichiro both realize Hantengu is an Upper Rank and prepare to attack, with Muichiro immediately using Mist Breathing, Fourth Form: Shifting Flow Slash. Hantengu swiftly dodges to the ceiling and cries, begging the Demon Slayers not to hurt him.
Hantengu divided into Sekido and Karaku.
Tanjiro tells himself not to hesitate and uses Hotaru's newly forged blade to attack Hantengu with Hinokami Kagura: Sunflower Thrust. Hantengu dodges again, but receives a blow from Nezuko in her awakened form. Tanjiro tells Nezuko not to transform and meanwhile, Muichiro successfully beheads Hantengu. Tanjiro remembers that beheading an Upper Rank does not necessarily result in its death based on his prior fight with Daki and Gyutaro and yells at Muichiro to keep his focus. Right as he does so, the severed head and body transform into two new Demons, one of which holds a leaf-shaped fan. Muichiro attacks the Demon with the fan, while Tanjiro takes on the other.
As Muichiro rushes to attack, the Demon waves his fan at him and intensely blasts Muichiro out of the building. Tanjiro and Nezuko manage to hold on to the rubble and come face-to-face with the two Demons. Karaku, the Demon with the fan, asks his partner Sekido if he was having fun. Sekido responds negatively and uses his staff to emit bolts of lightning-like attacks, which slowly make Tanjiro lose consciousness. Before he does, he sees Genya Shinazugawa on the rooftop pointing a gun at Sekido.
Genya Shinazugawa shoots both Sekido and Karaku with his Nichirin gun, blasting off Sekido's head and nearly decapitating Karaku. Karaku expresses enjoyment towards the fight as Genya rushes in to slash off his head with a Nichirin Sword. Tanjiro yells at Genya that his attacks were futile and the Demons were willingly being beheaded so they could keep splitting and increase their attack power.
Urogi abducts Tanjiro.
As the battle continues, Tanjiro desperately analyzes his opponents and tries to pinpoint their weaknesses, but his thoughts are interrupted by a third, bird-like Demon, Urogi, who lifts him up into the air with his foot. Realizing that each Demon has a unique ability, Tanjiro instructs Nezuko to assist Genya but, horrified, he realizes that his teammate had been impaled by a fourth Demon, Aizetsu. Urogi taunts him for worrying about others and not himself, proceeding to generate a sonic scream. Tanjiro attempts to counter with Hinokami Kagura and successfully cuts off Urogi's leg, but he is unable to dodge his scream and is violently struck with the attack as he falls.
Tanjiro plummets through the trees and lands hard on the ground. He pleads himself to get up and protect the village, but his injuries render him incapable of easily moving. Urogi lands near him and holds his leg down as he directs another shriek, and Tanjiro silently watches in alarm.
Muichiro saves Kotetsu from the fish Demon.
Elsewhere, Muichiro dashes through the forest as he makes his way back to the village. He spots Kotetsu trying to hold off a minion fish Demon and internally decides that he is not of priority to save, considering the boy's lack of refined swordsmanship skills and the importance of the village chief.
However, as he hears Kotetsu's cries as the Demon grabs him, Muichiro remembers Tanjiro's words of how helping others would positively benefit himself. He slashes the fish Demon's arm, releasing Kotetsu, and stands guard over the boy while requesting for him to run so he wouldn't be in the way.
Muichiro slashes the fish Demon and decapitates it, but it regenerates. He tries breaking the pot stationed on the Demon's back and subsequently makes it disintegrate. The Hashira then realizes the pot was the source of power for the Demon, likely the result of a Blood Demon Art. As he continues to think, a crying Kotetsu ambushes him with a hug and thanks him for saving him while also apologizing for calling him names earlier.
The Hashira tells Kotetsu to leave as he has to make it back to the village. Kotetsu begs him not to go since Kozo Kanamori and Hotaru Haganezuka were under attack while Hotaru was finishing a blade. Muichiro tries to turn down his request, but he hesitates when he hears Kagaya Ubuyashiki's voice in his head, who tells him to rediscover himself. Surprised at the pause, Muichiro thinks back to when he had gotten amnesia after being saved by Kagaya, who had told him not to worry about the memory loss and that the mist in his head will eventually clear out with matters that may seem unimportant at first.
Muichiro reminds himself that he was acknowledged by his master.
Convinced, Muichiro carries Kotetsu with him as they search for Kozo. As they continue through the forest, Muichiro begins to doubt if he was doing the right thing as the village was still in danger. However, he pushes the thought away and reminds himself that he is the Mist Hashira acknowledged by his master.
Tanjiro cuts Urogi's head.
In the forest near the edge of the village, Tanjiro dodges an attack from Urogi by slicing his head, splitting him into two more Demons. The pair of Demons generate more sonic screams and direct them at Tanjiro, but the Demon Slayer is able to withstand them and observes that Hantengu is most powerful at four separate Demons that represent the four primary emotions; any more splitting would decrease their attack strength. With this information, Tanjiro continues to attack Urogi and is slashed across the chest with the Demon's sharp claws, but manages to land multiple blows on his head.
Back in the building, Nezuko struggles against Karaku. Sekido impatiently asks for his partner to defeat her and Aizetsu volunteers to land the final blow. However, as Aizetsu attempts to pull his spear out of Genya, the Demon Slayer points his gun at him and blasts off his head.
Aizetsu injures Genya.
Sekido berates Aizetsu for his foolishness after Genya Shinazugawa shoots off his head, and the Demon responds by forcibly pulling his spear out of Genya, mortally damaging him. He comments on how the spear lodged in Genya's body had prevented him from dying after it hit his vital points and now he will perish. Ignoring him, Genya quietly chants the Amida Sūtra, which is recognized by Aizetsu. Angered at the delay, Sekido yells at Aizetsu to kill Genya, but the Demon Slayer dodges his spear and attacks Aizetsu from behind with a Nichirin Sword.
However, before Genya can cut off the Demon's head, he gets blasted from Sekido's lightning and becomes incapacitated, though he manages to hit Sekido with a bullet. Aizetsu responds by hitting him with the spear's shaft, knocking him into the wall.
Sekido incapicates Nezuko.
Still struggling against Nezuko Kamado, Karaku gleefully watches his companions fight and then impales Nezuko through the stomach with his foot. He gives instructions to Sekido and pulls Nezuko's arm off, but he receives a hefty kick from her and nearly loses his head. Using her Blood Demon Art, Nezuko proceeds to burn Karaku and pulls herself from his grasp. When Karaku is yelled at by Sekido, she takes his fan and blows him out of the building. She tries to do the same with Sekido, but he sticks his staff through her neck and shocks her with bolts of lightning, paralyzing her.
Genya's fanged smile.
Back in the forest, Tanjiro Kamado continues fighting against Urogi, who continuously slashes him with his talons. Tanjiro forces himself not to panic and makes it a priority to return to the building, internally telling Genya and Nezuko to keep holding on.
Genya recovers from being hit into the wall and continues muttering the chant. Surprised that he is still alive, Sekido questions him. Smiling, Genya holds up his gun and tells him his name, stating that he will be the one to kill him.
Tanjiro pierces Urogi.
Tanjiro Kamado continues fighting against Urogi and considers using the Demon's flight ability to exit the forest and return to Nezuko Kamado and Genya Shinazugawa in the village. Finalizing his plan, Tanjiro stabs the Demon in the mouth when he picks him up and uses the force to smash into the building's exterior wall, cracking it and falling in.
Tanjiro picks himself in time to see Sekido paralyzing Nezuko. When he dashes to save her, Sekido generates another staff and tries to hit Tanjiro, but the boy uses Urogi's foot to defend himself and prevent the lightning from reaching him. He then slices the Demon's head and tongue, stalling some time for him to pull the staff out of Nezuko's neck.
Urogi, Karaku, and Sekido regroup.
Suddenly, Tanjiro gets slammed down on the ground with the second staff and is about to receive a shock of lightning, but Nezuko recovers in time to burn Sekido and prevent him from hurting him. Relieved that Nezuko's Blood Demon Art is effective, he looks up in time to see Karaku soar through the air and hit the building's floor with enough pressure to bore a hole through it and render Tanjiro and Nezuko unconscious. Urogi, Karaku, and Sekido then regroup and gaze over their opponents, planning on dealing the final blow.
In the depths of the forest, Muichiro Tokito defeats a fish Demon and saves Kozo Kanamori, who is happy to see him and Kotetsu safe. After the reunion, Muichiro requests for Kozo to provide him with his fixed blade to replace the chipped one he is currently using. Kozo agrees that Muichiro needs a new blade and mentions that it was Tanjiro who asked him to fix the old blade.
Gyokko emerges from his pot.
He leads the Mist Hashira and Kotetsu to the shed where Hotaru Haganezuka is currently working and expresses gratefulness that there weren't any fish Demons nearby. Kozo explains that he has a sword for Muichiro in the shed and after he receives it, he should immediately head back to the village to protect the chief. Muichiro denies this proposal and pulls Kozo back when he tries to advance towards the shed. He tells him he senses something and sees a pot rattle. Gyokko, the Upper Rank 5, comes out and identifies Muichiro as a Hashira for realizing he was there and faces the trio.
Gyokko introduces himself to Muichiro Tokito, Kozo Kanamori, and Kotetsu and asks for a moment before he kills them. He presents his “art” piece titled “Death Throes of the Smiths,” consisting of multiple mangled swordsmiths with blades pierced through their bodies. The Demon starts describing the details of his work while a horrified Kozo and Kotetsu name the swordsmiths. Gyokko taunts them by their reactions and twists one of the swords, resulting in one of the swordsmiths screaming out in pain.
Muichiro protects Kozo and Kotetsu from the needles.
Aggravated by his demonstration, Muichiro attacks Gyokko but he retreats into his pot before the Hashira cuts him. He reappears in another pot on the shed’s roof and Muichiro notes his ability to switch between the pots, then slices up the one on the roof. Gyokko swiftly switches to yet another pot—appearing out of thin air on the ground—and expresses great irritation at Muichiro for destroying his artwork. The Demon summons a couple of fish Demons, which surprise Muichiro with Blood Demon Art: Thousand Needle Fish Kill and shower hundreds of sharp needles at him. The swordsman manages to dodge the first onslaught of needles, but is forced to take multiple hits from a second attack of needles to protect Kozo and Kotetsu. He tells the civilians to get away as the fish continue to attack him.
Muichiro gets trapped by Gyokko's Blood Demon Art.
Gyokko stands on the side and laughs at Muichiro's appearance which consists of multiple needles sticking out of him. He reveals that the needles contain poison and chides him for having to die because he saved insignificant people. Gyokko's words spark a sense of familiarity to Muichiro as he tries to remember where he had heard them before, suddenly recalling a hot summer day in a small abode.
Mitsuri rushes to the village.
The Demon expresses his eagerness to create a nice sculpture with a Hashira, but is interrupted by Muichiro attacking him. Gyokko uses Blood Demon Art: Water Prison Pot to surround his opponent with a pot-shaped prison of water, rendering him unable to breathe or attack as his blade could not pierce through the layer. He laughs at his predicament and proclaims the Twelve Kizuki's desire to weaken the Demon Slayers and reach Kagaya Ubuyashiki.
A crow caws through the night as Mitsuri Kanroji runs through the forest. She tells herself to hurry and enthusiastically states the convenience of the Swordsmith Village being close to where she was stationed.
A swordsmith rings the village's alarm to announce the arrival of the fish Demons and instructs the civilians to defend themselves, right before being consumed by a Demon. Elsewhere in the village, a group of swordsmiths try to defend themselves as a fish Demon approaches them. Mitsuri Kanroji arrives and slashes the Demon, killing it. She apologizes for her late arrival and heads towards the chief's residence.
Mitsuri attacks the fish Demon.
At Tecchin's location, a swordsmith tries to save him from being crushed by a fish Demon, but his injuries render him unable to move. Mitsuri appears before him and instructs him to stay still to prevent his injuries from becoming worse. The Love Hashira then attacks with Love Breathing, First Form: Shivers of First Love, slicing the Demon and making it release the chief. After defeating it, Mitsuri angrily mutters how those who hurt others will never make her heart throb.
As Tecchin falls from the Demon's grasp, she manages to catch him before he hits the ground. Crying, she begs him to wake up and, after a few coughs, he comments on how he was caught by someone cute. Relieved to see that he was alright, Mitsuri quickly goes to help the others that were wounded.
Nezuko uses her Blood Demon Art to set Tanjiro's sword on fire.
Tanjiro Kamado suddenly wakes up to hear the voices of Hantengu's various forms. He looks to see Nezuko Kamado carrying him through the building as she dodges bolts of lightning, and Tanjiro remembers they were previously knocked unconscious. They get hit with a shock of lightning and Tanjiro defends Nezuko and himself from Urogi's swoop, running out of the room. Sekido yells at Karaku for being too slow and tells him to use his uchiwa fan and destroy the building, to which he complies.
The pressure from Karaku's fan attack makes the building collapse with Nezuko caught under the debris. She grasps on Tanjiro's blade, making herself bleed while Tanjiro begs her to let go and that he will find a way to move the rubble. She refuses to stop holding the blade and uses her Blood Demon Art to set it on fire. Tanjiro notices the blade burning from the heat, and is shocked to see it change color from black to red as it gets enveloped in flames.
Through an inherited memory, Tanjiro Kamado sees an unnamed man and woman comment on how a swordsman with earrings had a blade that was normally jet black but somehow turned red when he was in combat. Tanjiro links the swordsman's blade with his, noticing the similarities in their color changes and how his was thanks to Nezuko Kamado's Blood Demon Art. He pushes himself to ignore his body's fatigue and injuries and tells himself to meet the expectations of those who had helped him thus far.
Tanjiro's resemblance to the powerful swordsman.
Sekido, Karaku, and Urogi belittle Tanjiro and rush towards him to attack, but they see the red sword and Muzan Kibutsuji's memories trigger. The forms recognize the red sword as the one used by the Demon Slayer that nearly killed their master and, as Tanjiro swings his sword back, his motions greatly resemble those of the swordsman. Stunned, the three forms are then all slashed with the Hinokami Kagura: Sun Halo Dragon Head Dance.
Tanjiro using Sun Halo Dragon Head Dance.
After decapitating them, Tanjiro recognizes the fiery sensation when cutting down the three Demons as the same one he felt when he dealt the final blow to Gyutaro at the Entertainment District. He goes to look for Hantengu's last form, Aizetsu, and sees him impaled to a tree with his own spear as Genya Shinazugawa stands in front of him, holding the Demon's head. Tanjiro's relief over Genya's safety and the defeat of Aizetsu quickly switches to horror as Genya turns to reveal a demonfied face. His thoughts are interrupted by a yelling Karaku, who complains about his inability to regenerate and the burning sensation in his wounds.
Genya's demonfied face.
Tanjiro feels uncertain if defeating the four emotion Demons is the correct way to finish off the Upper Rank, and, at that moment, he smells a fifth body. He tries to think of how to find it but Genya grabs him, declaring that he will be the one to defeat the Upper Rank and become a Hashira, not Tanjiro. Realizing that Genya has not succumbed to Demon instincts, Tanjiro and Nezuko give full support of his goal much to Genya's surprise.
Their conversation abruptly ends when Sekido blasts lightning towards them. Tanjiro splits up with Genya and Nezuko to rush off and find the fifth body so Genya can be the one to behead him. He rushes around and desperately searches, finally spotting the body cowering and quivering behind a bushes as it quietly mutters encouragement to himself and that the emotion Demons would defeat the slayers.
Tanjiro Kamado gives directions to Genya Shinazugawa about where to find the fifth form of Hantengu and asks Nezuko Kamado to provide him assistance. He is then nearly swept away by Karaku's wind attack. Nezuko attempts to slash Sekido before he can release lightning on her brother, but she gets impaled by Aizetsu's spear. Tanjiro hinders Sekido's movement by cutting off his hand holding the staff, and the Demon notes Tanjiro's exceptional battle adaptation skills.
Karaku forces Tanjiro into the ground.
Urogi is slashed by the flaming blade and Nezuko grabs Aizetsu, enveloping him in fire and burning him. Karaku counters Tanjiro by slamming his fan and forcing Tanjiro to the ground with pressure. However, before he can attack again, his arm falls off and he curses Tanjiro for cutting it.
Genya discovers Hantengu's fifth body.
Genya receives more directions from Tanjiro as the latter yells them out, and he desperately keeps searching for the fifth body. After more continuous searching, Genya spots Hantengu behind the bushes shrunk down. He shoots him with his gun, but the Demon dodges and runs away. While pursuing him, Genya inwardly chastises the Demon's wimpy nature and swings at his neck with his Nichirin Sword. He pushes himself to force the blade through Hantengu's neck, but the sword suddenly snaps due to the Demon's thick neck. He tries shooting again with his gun again to no avail. All of a sudden, Sekido appears behind Genya and aims his staff at his neck. Distressed, Genya remarks that he can't regenerate his head and is about to die. Before he gets struck, he thinks of his elder brother, Sanemi Shinazugawa, and states how he wanted to become a Hashira so he could apologize to him for something that had happened between them.
Genya and Sanemi's mother attacks her family after turning into a Demon.
Genya Shinazugawa thinks back to his past, where his small and weak mother would often be abused by his father alongside himself and his siblings. One night, Genya notices that she was late coming back even after their older brother, Sanemi Shinazugawa, went to look for her. He calms his siblings and tells them to sleep, but they suddenly hear a knock on the door. Genya tries to tell them not to open it in case it was a stranger, but they ignore his word and are immediately slashed upon reaching it. Genya is also cut across the cheek, and he stares in horror at a figure grasping onto the ceiling with the darkness preventing him from identifying it. Suddenly, Sanemi appears and tackles it out the window while yelling at Genya to run.
Sanemi after killing his Demon-turned mother.
Terrified, Genya checks the status of his siblings and tries to cover their wounds, despite their bodies already being cold. When he runs off to find a doctor, he approaches an injured Sanemi standing over the corpse of their demonfied mother. Dismayed at the sight, Genya runs over to cradle his mother's body in his arms and cries, calling Sanemi a murderer.
Genya, after remembering this past, internally apologizes to his older brother for his shock that overwhelmed him to the point of labeling Sanemi as their mother's killer, even despite the struggles that he must've had to protect him by killing her. He recalls an earlier, happier moment with him where they both agreed to defend their mother and siblings as brothers after the death of their abusive father.
As Sekido aims for Genya's neck, the Demon Slayer thinks of all his regrets and flaws. A memory of Sanemi as a Hashira declaring that he had no brother saddens Genya, and he thinks about how he wasn't able to reach Hashira status to earn the right of apologizing to him.
Genya shields Tanjiro from Aizetsu's Blood Demon Art.
Right as Sekido scrapes Genya's neck with his staff, Tanjiro Kamado appears above them and saves him by cutting Sekido's neck. He shouts at Genya to not give up, reminding him that he was supposed to be reaching for the goal of Hashira and that he should only think about beheading Hantengu. As Tanjiro finishes speaking, he notices Aizetsu approaching him from behind. The Demon uses its Blood Demon Art, Weeping Spears to attack Tanjiro, but the swordsman is shielded by Genya, who gets impaled at multiple spots on his body. Genya tells Tanjiro that he should be the one to behead Hantengu and Tanjiro accepts, dashing over to Hantengu and hitting him with his flaming sword. Upon being struck, Hantengu lets out a piercing scream.
Tanjiro Kamado puts pressure on his blade and attempts to force it through Hantengu’s neck. The Demon continues his high-pitched screeching, but Tanjiro refuses to waver. Suddenly, a dark figure appears behind them, and Tanjiro notices that it does not smell like any of the previous emotion Demons. Opting to ignore it, he keeps trying to behead Hantengu but his sword loses its power from Nezuko Kamado. Genya Shinazugawa aims at the figure behind Tanjiro, but he is unable to shoot without possibly hitting his teammate.
The sixth Demon.
The mysterious Demon hits a drum and a giant, dragon-faced tree immediately sprouts. Nezuko barely manages to jump in and save her brother, losing her leg in the process. She immediately regrows it right before they land but suffers a great loss of energy. As Tanjiro makes sure she is safe, the Demon begins talking and names the negative emotions that individuals who are pure evil emit, specifically those that harm the weak. Infuriated, Tanjiro realizes that there are now six Demons but notices he can’t sense the previous four. Genya witnesses the appearance of the sixth Demon and alarmingly recounts how it used to be the anger Demon, Sekido. However, after Tanjiro struck Hantengu’s neck, Sekido had forcefully absorbed his three counterparts and transformed into the child-like Demon in front of them.
Hantengu's ability to grow stronger the worser the situation.
The Demon hits another drum and wraps Hantengu with tree trunks, shielding him. Tanjiro tries to stop him, but he and Genya are both held back at the pure strength of the sixth Demon’s aura, a result of Hantengu’s power growing as his situation worsens. The Demon labels them as ‘evil’ and when Tanjiro demands an explanation as to why, he replies that the label is reserved to those who try to hurt the weak. Furious at his words contradicting the fact that he had eaten hundreds of innocent humans, Tanjiro loudly vows to cut him down.
Muichiro uses Low Clouds, Distant Haze in an attempt to break out of the pot.
Still trapped in Gyokko's Water Prison Pot, Muichiro Tokito thinks to himself that he has enough air for one attack, proceeding to use Mist Breathing, First Form: Low Clouds, Distant Haze. His attempt is unsuccessful and, without any more air in his lungs, he accepts his fate, thanking Kagaya Ubuyashiki for his support and wishes him luck finding someone to replace his Hashira position. However, he is surprised by a vision of Tanjiro Kamado who tells him that nobody knows what the future will be like, a statement Tanjiro had never said to him.
Hotaru's mask breaks and falls off, revealing his face.
In the nearby shed, Kozo Kanamori gets slashed by Gyokko as he desperately shields Hotaru Haganezuka from the Demon. Unaware of their presence, Hotaru fixates himself on restoring the blade given to him by Tanjiro and mutters about the incredible quality of its craftsmanship. Gyokko observes him, confirming that he is not the chief due to his age. The Demon calls out to him, but Hotaru does not respond and continues muttering about the eccentricity of the blade, a level of concentration that astonishes Gyokko. Jealous of Hotaru's fixation for his craft, Gyokko slashes him multiple times and summons another fish Demon that attacks Kozo. Hotaru continues to ignore him as his mask falls off from the attack, revealing his face, and Kozo rushes to try and snap him out of his trance. Gyokko vows to break the swordsmith's continuous persistence.
Kotetsu attempting to break the pot and save Muichiro.
Outside, Muichiro slowly loses his ability to breathe. Tanjiro's vision keeps appearing in front of him and expresses how Muichiro himself would decide his own fate. Muichiro dismisses his word, but Tanjiro continues and informs the Mist Hashira that someone would come save him. Although he tries to disclose his distaste for relying on someone else, the vision of Tanjiro tells him that he sometimes has to rely on others as he cannot do everything on his own.
Muichiro listens to his remark and berates himself for not working hard enough to prevent mistakes from happening and, additionally, for overestimating himself. Suddenly, a knife enters the water and Kotetsu begs Muichiro to not die as he futilely struggles to pierces the prison. Muichiro tries to get him to go protect the chief rather than worry about him, but Kotetsu persistently keeps trying. One of Gyokko's minions appears behind the child and slashes at him; as he runs, the Demon uses its claw to stab Kotetsu at his solar plexus. Seeing this attack on his vital point, Muichiro deems the boy dead.
Kotetsu blows in a breath of air.
However, Kotetsu stays standing and returns back to the water, blowing air into it and transferring a breath from him to Muichiro. As Muichiro inhales the air, he remembers Tanjiro's words about how helping others would in turn help him and connects his words to a man, Muichiro's father. Freshly motivated, the Hashira uses Mist Breathing, Second Form: Eight-Layered Mist and successfully destroys the water prison.
Muichiro makes it out of the pot.
As he escapes the prison, Muichiro Tokito realizes that Tanjiro Kamado's eyes are the same shade of red as his father's. Muichiro pulls out the needles numbing his face and begins regaining more of his memories, remembering that his father was a woodcutter. Kagaya Ubuyashiki's soothing words enter his mind and he sorrowfully thinks about his master's disease as he crawls to Kotetsu, cutting apart the fish Demon that had attacked him. Muichiro's memory progression continues as he recalls his mother's death from illness and his father's death from falling off a cliff. When he tries to speak with Kotetsu, Muichiro suddenly remembers about his older twin brother, Yuichiro Tokito, his sole companion after their parents' death until they were eleven.
Muichiro's past with his older twin brother, Yuichiro.
Thinking back to his past, Muichiro recalls Yuichiro's blunt personality after they were orphaned and how he ridiculed their father for trying to save their mother, a man who had died when aiming to help others. Crying, Muichiro unsuccessfully attempted to get Yuichiro to stop insulting their father and instead received insults from him regarding the first character in his name, "Mu" (無, "Mu"?), which could be interpreted as "nothingness." The twins continued to live together despite their strained relationship, which Muichiro had attributed to his older brother potentially despising him.
After surviving on their own for a while, the siblings were visited by Kagaya's wife, Amane Ubuyashiki, who had told them about their swordsmen heritage. Angered by her presence, Yuichiro drove her away and intensely berated Muichiro after he had expressed his interest in becoming a swordsman, straining their relationship to the point of forfeiting any communication between them.
Muichiro's Demon Slayer Mark appears.
One summer night, a Demon entered the twins' home, cutting off Yuichiro's left arm and insulting the siblings' lack of worth, angering Muichiro to the point of releasing explosive rage. The boy managed to pin the Demon and crush it, watching it disintegrate as the sun rose. Crawling back to Yuichiro, Muichiro witnessed his brother's final words begging the gods to spare Muichiro as he was a good person that desired to help others, unlike himself. As Muichiro held his brother's hand, he told him that the "mu" (無, "mu"?) in his name was actually meant to represent the "mu" in "infinity" (無限, mugen?).
Finally recovering his memories, Muichiro awakens his true strength and gains mist-like markings over his face as he powerfully grips his blade.
Yuichiro Tokito apologizes to his brother for his inability to be nice to him and that he truly tried to protect him, clutching his hand as his memories are shifted back to reality.
Hotaru's continuous persistence.
In the shed, Gyokko is infuriated to see Hotaru Haganezuka continuing to work on the blade despite the numerous injuries he had inflicted on him, including the loss of an eye. On the side, Kozo Kanamori struggles to move and Gyokko goes to finish him off, but he is interrupted by Muichiro Tokito's attack, narrowly dodging it. Surprised at his escape from the water prison, Gyokko sees the strange markings on his face and realizes it is similar to the mark on the boy with the hanafuda earrings that Muzan Kibutsuji had told him about. The boy's composed face and attack speed despite being struck with paralyzing needles earlier bothers the Demon as Muichiro rushes in to attack again. Anticipating it, Gyokko uses his Blood Demon Art, Octopus Vase Hell. Octopus legs fill the shed and trap Muichiro as they destroy the building. At the last moment, Kozo gives Muichiro his mended Nichirin Sword.
Muichiro thanks Kozo.
Outside, Hotaru is knocked aside from the attack but pays no mind to it as he returns to sharpening the blade, his stubborn persistence puzzling the Demon. Gyokko opts to temporarily ignore the swordsmith and instead focuses on Muichiro as he wraps him and Kozo with his attack, exclaiming that he will crush them. Despite Gyokko's claim that the octopus is too powerful to be cut, Muichiro cleanly slices through it and releases him and Kozo. Brandishing his new blade, Muichiro thanks the swordsmith though Kozo denies, stating that he simply followed the instruction of his previous swordsmith.
Muichiro talking with Tetsuido.
Muichiro thinks back to a conversation with his aforementioned swordsmith, the late Tetsuido, when he had expressed deep concern for his client after learning of how hard he worked and how difficult it was for him to cope with his memory loss. Internally apologizing to him for causing worry, Muichiro tells Tetsuido that he is alright now and proceeds to use Mist Breathing, Fifth Form: Sea of Clouds and Haze to cut apart the rest of the octopus's tentacles.
Gyokko watches him and praises him for his speed, but retorts that the swordsman would not be able to catch up to his pace. However, Muichiro refutes his word and suggests the Demon's senses have become sluggish and a confused Gyokko witnesses his neck get cut from the Hashira's previous attack. Angered, Gyokko tells him not to underestimate his strength.
The chapter begins with Muichiro talking with Gyokko about what will happen if he cuts off Gyokko's head. Muichiro said his rival's looks and words are absolutely disgusting, but it becomes very serious when Muchiro insults Gyokko's pot, causing Gyokko to become extremely angry.
Afterwards, the fight begins. Gyokko uses Blood Demon Art: Ten Thousand Gliding Slime-Fish, which his aim is to make Muichiro have 10,000 gliding fish feast on his body until he will become nothing but bones.
Muichiro using Sixth Form: Lunar Dispersing Mist.
But the Mist Hashira dodges it easily. Muichiro then uses the Mist Breathing: Sixth Form - Lunar Dispersing Mist in order to cut all the fish that Gyokko releases. But the fish have already successfully spread the poison, so Gyokko has a seldom moment to ensure that Muichiro will soon be knocked out. To Gyokko's surprise, Muichiro uses the Mist Breathing: Third Form - Scattering Mist Splash and blows out all of the poison. After Muichiro has made a cut through the demon's body, he realizes at that moment, Gyokko appears on a tree near them with a whole new form and states that Muichiro is the 3rd person to see it. But contrary to Gyokko's expectations, Muichiro doesn't react a thing to his new form, which makes Gyokko filled with rage. Gyokko then creates a hit towards Muichiro, which includes fish. Thereafter, he notices that Muichiro is already sitting on a tree. (There's a panel that shows Kozo Kanamori and Hotaru Haganezuka got blasted away). Gyokko asks Muichiro what he thinks of his speed and his godlike power, and praises himself while Muichiro stayed silent. After Gyokko has finished his monologue about his "perfect beauty", Muichiro finished with a quote: "You can be as flashy as you like, but it's all useless if you can't touch me."
Muichiro reminds himself and urges himself to remember the seething rage he felt when he watched his brother and himself become infested with maggots, slowly being eaten. Recall the rage he has against demons for killing his brother. Recall the rage and remember why he became a demon slayer. "It was to exterminate the demons. To utterly destroy all of them!" Muichirou thinks. Gyokko then praises himelf in his "beautiful and sincere seriousness" before using his Blood Demon Art, Killer Fish Scales. Gyokko says that his scales make it unable to predict his movements and thinks that "it's over" for Muichiro. But Muichiro uses the Mist Breathing, Seventh Form: Obscuring Clouds to disorient the enemy. He then appears and seems to vanish when Gyokko attacks. Gyokko is confused and looks around for the slayer, only to find that the whole place is enveloped in mist. Muichiro then appears, uttering a cocky comment saying he hadn't been serious before like Gyokko before cutting the demon's head off. Gyokko is confused as to why everything is upside down as his head falls to the ground. But he is then enraged and in disbelief when he realized he's been beheaded by a mere child. It is then revealed that Muichiro drastically changed the speed of his movements to disorient the enemy and that when the boy wants to, he can go really slow or really fast. His highest speed exceeds Gyokko's. Gyokko then starts a monologue about how he is a chosen one and how humans are inferior. He's about to call Muichiro a maggot, but before he can his head is sliced to bits. The chapter ends with Muichiro saying, "That's enough. Just go to hell already."
Muichiro's blood gets poisoned.
After defeating Gyokko of the Twelve Kizuki, Muichiro Tokito is approached by Kozo Kanamori who is concerned for his well being. Despite trying to reassure him that he is fine and to check on the others, Muichiro begins to foam at the mouth revealing that his blood was  poisoned by Gyokko and he proceeds to fall unconscious. Kozo begins to panic and calls out to Haganezuka for help, who never comes.
Kotetsu appears from behind him in the forest and instructs Kozo to turn him on his side, scaring him in the process. Kozo is surprised to see the young boy standing before him, and asks how he's still alive despite the massive amount of blood loss. Kotetsu explains that the blood from his arm smeared onto his stomach, but he was protected from any fatal injury due to the hilt that Tanjiro had entrusted to him for his katana. Muichiro regains subtle consciousness and sees the hilt which belonged  to the late Kyojuro Rengoku, causing tears to well in his eyes. Apparitions of his deceased mother, father, and brother appear all around him, congratulating him for his hard work.
Elsewhere in the forest, Tanjiro can be seen struggling to defeat Zohakuten's wooden dragon heads. He attempts to injure one of the heads using the Hinokami Kagura: Clear Blue Sky but the dragon utilizes a sound attack which causes Tanjiro to collapse and his ear drums to burst. As the dragon head launches another attack towards Tanjiro, he attempts to dodge but his foot is left injured in the process. The dragon head leaves him with no chance to escape and approaches quickly, latching onto Tanjiro's wrist before he can defend himself.
Mitsuri saves Tanjiro from being crushed.
Nezuko and Genya watch helplessly unable to come to Tanjiro's aid as the dragon head begins to come down on him, crushing him in the process. However within moments, the dragon head is split in half and is subtly destroyed as a squeal of disgust can be heard in the night. Mitsuri Kanroji can be seen leaping in the air while carrying Tanjiro on her back to safety, while apologizing for her tardiness. Stunned by her appearance, Tanjiro warns her to be careful of the demon she's about to face since he is a member of the Twelve Kizuki, but she pays him no mind and proceeds to scold the demon instructing him to return Nezuko and Genya.
Zohakuten insults Mitsuri by calling her a shameless tramp.
Unfazed by the arrival of the  Hashira, Zohakuten proceeds to insult Mitsuri by calling her the “shameless tramp”, for trying to order him around. Mitsuri stares at the demon with disgust after being called a shameless tramp and is offended by the insult. She compares him to her younger brother in a comical sense and is appalled by his behavior. Zohakuten begins to launch his attack against Mitsuri using the Crazed Cry of Thunder Death to attack her, but she is able to defend herself using Love Breathing : Third From - Catlove Shower to negate his attack. Mitsuri becomes annoyed with Zohakuten's sudden attack and leaves him surprised with her ability to stop his attack.
Zohakuten prepares to kill Mitsuri with his fist.
The chapter starts by explaining that Mitsuri's sword is very thin and soft. It is extremely hard to handle and only made for her use. It then cuts back to the fight, where Mitsuri uses her Love Breathing, Second Form: Love Pangs and Love Breathing, Sixth Form: Cat-Legged Winds of Love consecutively. Zohakuten notices that she's keeping up with his speed and decides to put her down with a technique. He then uses his Blood Demon Art: Countless Striking Trees, but Mitsuri uses her Love Breathing, Fifth Form: Swaying Love, Wildclaw to cut through the attack, reaching Zohakuten's body. Tanjiro sees this and shouts to her that Zohakuten is not Hantengu's real body. Zohakuten then releases his Blood Demon Art: Compressed Sound Waves, Mitsuri has no choice but to face the attack head-on. Mitsuri is paralyzed and loses consciousness, but survives the attack. Zohakuten realizes that Mitsuri has immense strength, then decides that he is going to eat her before throwing a fist at her head. Mitsuri's life flashes before her eyes as Hantengu's fist is about to land.
It starts with Mitsuri's first fiance telling her that only a bear, boar, or cow would take her as their wife. He also insults her hair color and says that it makes him shudder just to think about it being passed onto his children. He tells her to forget about him and the fact that their marriage interview ever even happened. That marriage was called off - she was 17 at the time. It then explains that Mitsuri has a special muscle composition. Her arms are thin and look weak, but her muscle density is eight times a regular human's. At fourteen months old she was able to pick up a 33-pound pickling stone. She also ate a lot. She had an almost insatiable appetite, eating almost the same amount as three sumo wrestlers. The day her marriage was called off, she decided to hide all of her peculiar traits. One day a man appeared and said he wanted to marry her.
Mitsuri is snapped back to reality when Tanjiro, Nezuko, and Genya manage to save her from Zohakuten's fist. Tanjiro says that Mitsuri is their last hope, encouraging her to get back up and fight. Zohakuten releases another attack, however, Mitsuri cuts through his attack protecting the four of them. The chapter ends with Mitsuri screaming at Zohakuten, "I won't lose to evil people. Now get your butts ready! It's time to get serious!"
In a flashback, Kagaya compliments Mitsuri by saying she is a special person chosen by the gods and she should be proud of her own strength, informing her that whoever talks bad about it has jealousy. Mitsuri sincerely thanks her father and mother, all the Demon Slayers who took her in, all the people she protected, and Obanai for giving her striped socks. She rethinks how she wondered if it was okay to be strong because she was a girl and realizes that she herself suppressed her strength out of fear, she's isn't anymore. She is driven to protect the people.
She cuts through Zohakuten's attack and urges herself to get stronger. Tanjiro, Genya, and Nezuko start looking for Hantengu's main body while Mitsuri deals with Zohakuten. Zohakuten notices the trio looking for the main body and tries releasing an attack their way, but it's cut down by Mitsuri before it can reach them. Mitsuri is moving faster than before and Zohakuten doesn't know how. He then notices a mark on her clavicle. Zohakuten releases another attack, but Mitsuri easily cuts through it.
Genya, Tanjiro, and Nezuko are fighting a tree that is being controlled by Hantengu and has his real body in it, but they can't cut it when their arms are occupied holding onto the tree. Genya has no choice, but to eat the tree. It is then revealed that Genya cannot use breaths and has the special ability to temporarily inherit the traits of the demon if he eats its flesh. The top part of the tree falls to the ground after Genya eats a lower part of the plant, cutting through the trunk of the tree. Tanjiro then attempts to cut the tree up, but the branches are like whips. Nezuko sets the tree and Tanjiro's sword on fire with her blood and Tanjiro uses Hinokami Kagura: Flame Waltz to cut the tree in half to reach the hollow inside where Hantengu's main body is, but he's already gone and is running away in the forest.
Tanjiro screams at the demon that he will make him pay for every sin he has committed. Hantengu remembers the magistrate saying that everything he does is his responsibility, but he believes he hasn't done anything wrong in his entire life. Then Genya throws a tree at him.
The chapter begins with Nezuko and Tanjiro ducking as Genya angrily rips out a tree from the roots and throws it at Hantengu. Despite ripping out numerous trees, each one fails to accurately hit Hantengu, Nezuko then emerges and attempts to quickly swipe at Hantengu, but he evades her and quickly speeds off.
Thinking of what to do, Tanjiro recalls a conversation he had with Zenitsu regarding Total Concentration. He circulates air throughout the fibers in his muscles and the blood in his veins and is able to quickly blast towards Hantengu in an instant.
As Tanjiro tries to behead him, Hantengu rhetorically asks him if Tanjiro feels bad for him and then suddenly grows in size and chokes Tanjiro while Genya and Nezuko rush in and try to help Tanjiro, Genya tries to pull Tanjiro free while Nezuko leaps into the air and uses her Blood Demon Art, Genya manages to rip Hantengu's arms off but panics about getting burned as he ate demon flesh. Hantengu, Nezuko, and Tanjiro fall over a cliff.
While Nezuko lays motionless next to him, Hantengu, armless with Tanjiro's sword stuck in his neck, gets up, stating that his regeneration is slowing down because he's used up too much power and needs to consume more human flesh, which he senses nearby. Tanjiro, who has fallen on a branch along the ledge above him, exclaims he will not allow Hantengu to escape and he will chase him "down to the depths of hell." While going towards some nearby villagers, Hantengu comments that Nezuko was the worst nuisance of the three.
Tanjiro falls off of the branch, and begins to give chase, thinking to use the technique he used previously to quickly blast towards and initially catch up to Hantengu. As he is running towards Hantengu, the sword Hotaru Haganezuka had been sharpening was thrown and suddenly landed in front of him while Muichiro Tokito yells from the ledge to use the sword, all while Hotaru screams his objections about the sword still being unfinished and Kozo Kanamori attempting to hold him back. Tanjiro thanks Tokito, grabs the sword, and activates Sun Breathing enveloping the sword in flames, and beheads Hantengu using the move Waltz Flash to catch up and decapitate him.
The first light of dawn signals daybreak. Tanjiro realizes this and tries to tell Nezuko to go hide in the shade, but his voice doesn't come out, causing Nezuko to run his way in worry. He yells at Nezuko to go hide in the shade, but then notices that Hantengu's decapitated body is still moving and attacking the villagers. There is "Resentment" written on the tongue of the body's head, where there should be the word "fear", meaning that the body that Tanjiro decapitated was not the real one.
Before Tanjiro can take any action to find the real body, the rays of light from the rising Sun reach Nezuko. She starts to burn. Tanjiro shields her with his body and tells her to shrink smaller, but she is still getting burned. All the others are too far away to help him and Hantengu's body will get the villagers before he can put Nezuko in the box and save them. Nezuko kicks him in the direction of the villagers and smiles at him as she sacrifices herself for the villagers' sake.
Tanjiro cries as he decides that he needs to find the real body, running in the direction of the fake body. He starts by sniffing out the real body, finding that it's in the fake body's heart. The fake body has caught the villagers, but Tanjiro cuts its arm off before it can hurt them. Memories from Hantengu's previous human life flash before his eyes just before Tanjiro slices his head off.
Tanjiro collapses on the ground in sadness and exhaustion. He won, but he sacrificed his sister to do it. But the villagers shake him and point in the direction behind him. Standing in the Sun, healed and uninjured is Nezuko. Tanjiro stares in disbelief. "M-M-Morning," his sister says.
Tamayo and Yushiro observing Chachamaru departing to find Tanjiro.
The chapter starts with the narration of Tamayo's letter to Tanjiro. In the letter she thanks him for giving her the blood of demons of the Twelve Kizuki and Nezuko. Using the samples she created an antidote that allows demons to regain consciousness and which she successfully tested on one of Muzan's victims. She tells him that the components of Nezuko's blood changed in a very short span of time and explains that she thinks the reason Nezuko hasn't been able to regain her consciousness and is still acting like a child is because she has been prioritizing something else. She says that she thinks Nezuko will soon be able to conquer the Sun.
Mitsuri cries tears of relief as Zohakuten disintegrates to dust.
It cuts back to Nezuko and Tanjiro. Tanjiro shakes and cries tears of happiness as he asks Nezuko if she has become human again, but her only response is echoing his words. Tanjiro realizes that even though she is standing in the Sun, she still has fangs and the eyes of a demon. Tanjiro is in disbelief that she is fine and hugs Nezuko and cries. Nezuko pats his head and smiles. Genya watches the display and smiles too. Tanjiro soon passes out due to exhaustion and in the distance Mitsuri screams loses strength just as the body of Hantengu she was fighting disintegrates to dust. Mitsuri falls to the ground and cries tears of joy, exclaiming that they must have cut Hantengu's head off.
The Blue Spider Lily.
In another place, a maid and Muzan's "mother" walk in on Muzan, disguised as a child, cackling in glee before brutally obliterating the head of his "mother". The maid stares at Muzan in horror as he talks about how there is no more need for the Blue Spider Lily when all he needs to do is find Nezuko and devour her. Then he can conquer the Sun. As he reverts to his adult form, Muzan mercilessly murders the maid while she tries to run away from him.
We now see the explanation as to why Muzan wanted this Blue Spider Lily so much. There was once a generous doctor that turned Muzan into a demon. Muzan had been angry that he would not live longer than twenty due to his worsening sickness even though he had suffered so much just to live only a little bit longer. So he killed the doctor. But after killing him he realized that the medicine the doctor had given him had made him stronger. He had obtained a strong body, but he couldn't walk in the Sun. Angered by this he tried to make the medicine, but he didn't have the Blue Spider Lily flower that had been used to make it. He searched and searched and searched for the blue Spider Lily flower, but he found nothing. The only person who knew where it was was the doctor he had killed. Muzan had wanted the perfect immortal body and now that Nezuko had conquered the Sun, all the battles will be centered around her. And they will be ever bloodier than before.
Muichiro thanks Tanjiro for helping him get something important back and the chapter ends with a happy reunion hug initiated by Mitsuri with Nezuko, Tanjiro, Muichiro, Genya, and Kotetsu grateful that no one had died.

Following the Swordsmith Village's attack, rebuilding has began due to the lingering threat of demons. Damage was kept at a minimum, but for the villagers, there was no time to mourn the dead. In the Butterfly Mansion, Tanjiro speaks with Goto and is told that the village will be relocated. Goto remarks on his hasty eating, since he had been unconscious for a week, but Tanjiro is unconcerned, mentioning both the Love and Mist Hashira have nearly recovered completely in three days. The Kakushi asks about Nezuko, having heard that something remarkable had happened to her, to which Tanjiro answers that she was able to withstand sunlight; he mentions she is being examined on whether she is returning into a human or evolving as a demon. Goto asks if Shinobu is leading the examination and Tanjiro corrects him by stating that it is Tamayo, but begins coughing while eating, annoying the Kakushi with his correct assumption.
He then asks on the whereabouts of Sumi, Kiyo, Naho, and Aoi, to which Tanjiro explains that with no one to help recover, they've spent time playing with Nezuko. Goto comments that all is at peace until the return of Zenitsu, who eventually arrives back at the mansion after his mission; his screaming immediately annoys Sumi and Aoi. Ecstatic and excited to see Nezuko speaking, Zenitsu begins complimenting her excessively and asking that she marry him, much to Aoi's chagrin. When Nezuko suddenly calls him Inosuke, his happy mood shatters and he threatens to kill Inosuke, who was revealed to have been repeatedly attempting to make Nezuko say his name.
The Hashira attending the emergency Hashira Meeting.
At an emergency Hashira Meeting in the Ubuyashiki Mansion, as Sanemi speaks of his jealousy of not being able to face the Upper Ranks, Obanai asks Mitsuri and Muichiro on their condition. Mitsuri happily answers she is much better and Muichiro answers so, but adds he is not fully himself. Gyomei is relieved they have survived and successfully defeated the higher demons, while Shinobu is astounded by their speedy recovery. As Giyu asks if Kagaya will tell them what happened, Amane Ubuyashiki appears to take his place at the meeting, as Kagaya's condition has become too severe. The Hashira kneel before her; Gyomei prays for Kagaya and Amane's wellbeing and she extends her gratefulness to them. She tells the Hashira that with Nezuko's resistance to sunlight, Muzan Kibutsuji will soon hunt her with renewed vigour, leading to a large confrontation in the future. She then speaks about the marks that manifested in Mitsuri and Muichiro during their battles, hoping they could explain how it happened.
She explains that during the Sengoku period, when the swordsmen using the first Breathing Style almost killed Muzan, special marks appeared on their bodies. The Hashira are shocked, never once hearing about this happening, and Amane answers it is because so little is known about them. What that is known is an account by a swordsman who used the first Breathing Style, which stated, "when the Marked one arrives, the Mark will appear on others around that person, as if in resonance". Amane tells the Hashira that the first to be marked is Tanjiro Kamado, but since he was unable to explain how it happened, she hopes Mitsuri and Muichiro can.
Excited to be on the spot, Mitsuri gives her explanation: "It hit me like WAAAAH! Like WHOOM! FWAAH! My heart and stuff was all BA-DUMP BA-DUMP and my ears rang like PING! CRICK-CRACK-POP!" The Ubuyashikis and the Hashira stare with bewilderment at her explanation, and the embarrassed Love Hashira quickly bows down and apologizes, wishing she could crawl into a hole and vanish. Muichiro speaks up and states that while he did not know about the mark, he can explain certain factors he remembered that could help them know more.
Muichiro explains that during his recent fight, he was paralyzed by a poison and used his breathing to slow its circulation. A boy attempting to save him was almost killed and his lost memories returned. Lost in his anger, he explains his heart rate must have exceeded 200 beats per minute and his body temperature rose to above 39°C. Shinobu is surprised to hear this, believing such conditions could have been fatal. Muichiro believes that with the harsh conditions on the body, surviving them separates those who can manifest it from those who can't. Amane asks how he determined his body temperature, to which he mentions he once had a fever of that temperature, and he felt the same way when the mark appeared.
Sanemi is surprised by its seeming simplicity; Giyu mentions his envy for his simple mind to believe such simple conditions but doesn't continue when the Wind Hashira confronts him. Shinobu believes all the Hashira must attain the mark and Gyomei also believes they can attain it, asking Amane to ease Kagaya's concerns. However, Amane adds one more caveat regarding the mark manifested and explains it is already too late for those who have it; something will happen to those who have it which cannot be avoided.
After Amane's leave, Giyu excuses himself; Sanemi confronts him for attempting to leave but Giyu states the six of them should talk, excluding him. Obanai questions his remarks, believing he isn't taking his duties as a Hashira seriously or perhaps suggesting he wants to train ahead of them. As he walks away, Sanemi yells at him to stop and Shinobu asks that he explain himself. Giyu simply claims he is different to them. Sanemi gets up and angrily asks if he is implying that he looks down on them, having heard the same phrase before. Mitsuri nervously stands between them to stop a potential fight but the situation is silenced by a loud clap from Gyomei, who orders them to sit back down and explains he has a proposal.
At the Butterfly Mansion, Hotaru arrives to deliver Tanjiro his sword. The swordsmith is breathing heavily behind his mask with visible sweat coming off it. Hotaru gives Tanjiro his sword and sits down at Goto's request. Tanjiro is amazed to see Kyojuro's tsuba on it. The swordsmith urges Tanjiro to unsheathe the blade, and Tanjiro is in awe by its appearance. Hotaru says that because it is made from high quality steel, it must been used previously by a strong swordsman. He notes that the blade has the single kanji for Slay (滅, Metsu?) carved on it and explains that the blade was forged before the Demon Slayer rankings was established and is why only the Hashira have the phrase Destroyer of Demons (惡鬼滅殺, Akki Messatsu?).
When Tanjiro asks why he couldn't see the kanji when he used it, Hotaru angrily answers it was because it had only been polished to its first stage when he used it. Even now, the pain of polishing it has not subsided, hence his exhaustive efforts to stand here now, and adds that he was further interrupted numerous times, while pulling Tanjiro's cheek. Goto explains that Tanjiro's own wounds are as bad as his to make him stop and Hotaru turns to face him, threatening the Kakushi. He then demands that Tanjiro give him a life time supply of mitarashi dango, to which Tanjiro agrees, before bidding the swordsmith goodbye when he leaves.
Goto asks about the rumours of his temper and the Demon Slayer notes that with his pain, Hotaru was actually calm today. Lying in the bed beside him, an annoyed Genya asks Tanjiro on why he is being noisy. Tanjiro attempts to apologize but is interrupted when Inosuke crashes through the window. Goto and Tanjiro reprimand him as Genya wishes he was placed elsewhere, while Inosuke only tells him that training to get stronger has begun. When Tanjiro asks for the details, Inosuke replies he does not know.
Special organized preparation known as Hashira Training commences, and all those ranked below the Hashira will be trained by them. While the Hashira usually do not train anyone but their Tsugukos, due to their many responsibilities, ever since Nezuko Kamado has been revealed to be resistant to sunlight, demon attacks have halted completely. Knowing the worst was to come, the Hashira have instead devoted themselves to performing their roles as security in the night. and training during the day.
Tanjiro and Zenitsu discuss the latter's time in Hashira Training, which he calls an awful experience, mentioning how he was forced to spar with someone stronger than himself. On the other hand, Tanjiro is excited at the prospect of becoming even stronger, causing Zenitsu to angrily gnaw on his forehead while screaming that they are not friends at this current moment. He bemoans that the only reason Tanjiro can imagine it as a helpful tool is because he is lying in a comfortable bed healing, whilst he must train now.
Before leaving, Zenitsu hears Tanjiro thank him, recalling his battle with Upper Four and how a technique he taught him had helped defeat the demon. Tanjiro uses this to motivate him into seeing Hashira Training as beneficial, but Zenitsu instead uses his words to make himself feel good about being skilled. A Kasugai crow then pecks Tanjiro on the head and gives him a letter.
At Hashira Training, Tengen yells at the trainees on the ground to keep running, despite them all being exhausted. Training begins with Tengen's basic stamina training, which is then followed by Mitsuri's lessons in enhancing flexibility, and then accompanied by Muichiro's teaching in high-speed movement. After this comes swordsmanship training with Obanai, lessons with Sanemi to survive an onslaught of attacks, and completed with strength training with Gyomei. Furthermore, sparring against the trainees for hours on end gives the Hashira the chance to improve their own strength, and it can also be beneficial when training is able to raise both the heart rate and body temperature to unlock the Mark. Those who have manifested it must also train to maintain it, and amongst the Corps, sharing the knowledge helps to boost everyone's abilities overall. However, one person is not training.
Giyu surpised to see Tanjiro enter his mansion.
Alone in his mansion, Giyu suddenly hears Tanijro's voice from outside. He lets himself in and explains what Hashira Training entails, to which Giyu mention he is already aware of what it is. Mentioning he can resume active duty in a week, he asks Giyu for lessons but is denied. Tanjiro notes that he smells angry, to which Giyu answers that he is angry at him for not mastering Water Breathing, believing he was supposed to be the next Water Hashira. Tanjiro notes that Sakonji had told him it wasn't unusual to switch one's own style into something new since Water Breathing is a rather basic style, but Giyu denies this and says that someone must take up the mantle, flatly denying he is the Water Hashira. He orders him to leave and walks away, leaving Tanjiro dismayed.
Giyu being followed by Tanjiro as he walks.
In a previous meeting with Kagaya, Tanjiro is told by the Oyakata to convince Giyu to join them all in training, asking that he talk to him. Giyu had always been one to turn his back and act solitary, asking that he be persistent in his efforts. Tanjiro, taking this at face value, accomplishes this by speaking to Giyu endlessly throughout the day, even waiting outside the bathroom to speak with him. After four days, Giyu gives in and tells Tanjiro that he did not finish Final Selection. Tanjiro asks if he means the selection at Mount Fujikasane and he confirms it. During his selection, there was a boy who lost his family to demons, like himself; Giyu tells him his name was Sabito, which shocks Tanjiro. They were both thirteen when they met and they bonded quickly. During Final Selection, Sabito was the only one to die, despite the fact that he killed all the mountain's demons almost singlehandedly.
Giyu adds that he was injured by the first demon he fought and Sabito ordered him to go to safety as he continued fighting. A week later, the selection had concluded. He questions if he can really be considered someone who passed the selection if he was saved and says he isn't worthy to be a Hashira. He believes he cannot stand beside his peers and that he doesn't deserve a place in the Corps, bringing Tanjiro to tears. Giyu tells him to have lesson with a true Hashira, believing that unlike himself, Sabito could have manifested the Mark, and asking Tanjiro to not waste time with him.
Tanjiro sympathizes with Giyu, knowing the pain to lose someone and the wish to die instead of them, a feeling worsened when that person had saved them. He recalls his time with Sabito and Makomo, despite knowing they were dead when they helped him; he is amazed that Sabito would have Giyu's age now had he lived and marvels at his feat of saving everyone at Final Selection. Had he survived, Sabito would have undoubtedly been an incredible swordsman, adding that it must also weigh on Giyu's frustration that he survived. He reminisces on Kyojuro, someone who sacrificed his life to save others; though he once thought he himself should have died, he remembers Inosuke's words telling him the Hashira believed in them. Knowing this, he wonders what he must say to Giyu, someone who doesn't call himself a Hashira despite his accomplishments.
He calls out to Giyu and asks if he would want to make use of Sabito's gift to him, a question that stops the swordsman in his tracks. He thinks back to a time when he and Sabito had training. Sabito had slapped Giyu in the face for wishing that he was dead, threatening to end their friendship then. He tells Giyu that his older sister had protected him from a demon, demanding he does not disrespect her death again. She sacrificed her life to give him a future. The familiar sting sits with Giyu, as Tanjiro becomes worried he had gone too far; he vividly remembers the pain of Sabito's reprimand, recalling the reason he forgot such a vital moment was because he previously didn't want to remember the pain of their loss.
Remembering his sister Tsutako and his friend Sabito once again, Giyu apologizes to them for his immaturity. Tanjiro grows concerned at Giyu's absent reaction, believing he only worsened his pain. Thinking quickly, he believes they can have an eating contest, since he cannot spar yet, and Giyu at an eating contest means he doesn't have to talk much. Suddenly, Giyu turns to him and says that he is late to his lessons. Tanjiro asks if he could partake in a soba eating contest with him, to which Giyu obliges. With his participation, Hashira Training is now in full swing.
Shinobu telling Kanao that she can't participate in Hashira Training.
Elsewhere, a visibly angry Shinobu rushes inside her room and sits down, attempting to calm herself. Kanao arrives and tells her she will now train with Sanemi. She asks if she could train with her following the lessons with Gyomei, but Shinobu explains she isn't participating in Hashira Training, inviting her to sit with her. Kanao is dismayed as she wanted to train with her, but Shinobu smiles upon hearing, seeing that she is making her own choices. Believing now is the time, Shinobu discusses with Kanao a plan to kill the demon who killed her sister.
A Kasugai crow flies into an open window and greets the demon Tamayo. He introduces himself as Kagaya's messenger and compliments her on her hiding, as Kagaya had since lost his ability to move since he began searching for her. Tamayo asks how he knew to find her, to which the crows explains he had followed the former owner of the house she is now, and that he had taken control of Yushiro's sight. He eases her concern by mentioning he has no reason to harm them, to which Tamayo then questions his purpose here, believing Kagaya will trick her. When she asks for Yushiro's whereabouts, the crows notes he is still upstairs.
Getting to his message, the crows explains that someone in the Demon Slayer Corps is highly knowledgeable about demon physiology and pharmacology, and Kagaya wants the two of them to study Nezuko's transformation together. Tamayo is shocked by this, wondering how a demon could enter the Demon Slayer Corps.
Tanjiro spars with Muichiro.
After making a full recovery, Tanjiro partakes in Hashira Training, happier than the others to be able to participate. Tengen greets his former companion and is impressed to learn he had killed another Upper Rank, before ordering him to run, which Tanjiro gleefully does. Hinatsuru, Makio, and Suma also extend their greetings to the Demon Slayer as they give out food. After ten days, Tanjiro passes the stamina training and has permission to move to the next stage. In Muichiro's mansion, he and Tanjiro spar at incredible speeds as Muichiro gives his lessons to attack quickly while sustaining strength. The other trainees are amazed to see someone match the Hashira.
After five days of training, Muichiro gives Tanjiro permission to proceed, his demeanour with him bright and cheery as Tanjiro is amazed at his own progress; when the other trainees ask for Muichiro's permission to proceed after two weeks, his previously aloof and unemotional face emerges, sternly criticizing them for their lack of progression. At Mitsuri's mansion, Tanjiro reunites with the Love Hashira, who is similarly ecstatic to see him. From the smell of her home, Tanjiro learns that she keeps bees to harvest honey, using it to top pancakes.
For her stage, participants must don skimpy attire and dance to music as part of her training, which is followed by flexibility exercises, involving Mitsuri using her potent strength to stretch the participants in painful positions. After completing flexibility training, Tanjiro arrives at Obanai's mansion, who has been ominously waiting for him. Tanjiro tries to proclaim his excitement but the Serpent Hashira silences him, angry at the happiness Mitsuri experienced during training with him, leaving the Demon Slayer anxious.
Obanai showing Tanjiro what his training stage looks like.
Inside his mansion, Obanai has numerous trainees tied to posts strewn in the training room. When asked if they were guilty of something to be treated so harshly, Obanai claims they are guilty of, "being weak, not learning, being a pain in the butt, and irritating me". Tanjiro spars with Obanai, using a wooden sword that would nonetheless hurt to be struck with. The Hashira uses his unusual fighting style to weave attacks between the tied victims and hit his opponent, all while Tanjiro must attack back without hitting anyone. Worsening his task is that he is able to hear the inner thoughts of the tied trainees, praying not to be hit.
Obanai's weaving strike hits Tanjiro.
Despite the difficult task, Tanjiro progresses and is able to attack more accurately than ever, even fending off Obanai. After four days, upon landing a strike on Obanai's clothing, the Serpent Hashira orders him to leave. On his way to Sanemi's mansion, Tanjiro is startled by Zenitsu suddenly grabbing at him, begging him to help his escape from the brutal stage. Sanemi himself then appears and grabs Zenitsu, angrily yelling at the trainee to choose between training or dying, before ordering Tanjiro to carry him and follow his lead.
As he remarks of his excitement to train, Sanemi tells him not to be carried away as he dislikes him. Tanjiro, remembering when Sanemi stabbed Nezuko multiple times in order to prove she was a danger, retorts that he doesn't like him either, earning the Hashira's ire. Sanemi's training involves participants sparring against him, a straightforward task that becomes immensely difficult due to Sanemi's brutality and refusal to relent, only stopping when they vomit blood or lose consciousness; Tanjiro remarks that even Obanai gave him more breaks. Sanemi is especially hard on Tanjiro, using any brief lapse in concentration to attack him, leaving his face covered in large bloody bruises.
Following his first day, Tanjiro slinks to his room, dismayed by his dismal training session, when he hears Genya's voice. Genya attempts to speak with his older brother but Sanemi claims he has does not have one, threatening to kill him if he speaks again, as Tanjiro watches the commotion.
Sanemi dismisses Genya's attempt to speak with him, using his lack of talent as an insult and claiming he can quit the Demon Slayer Corps. Watching his brother walking away, Genya attempts to apologize to him, saying he wanted to for a long time, but Sanemi again refuses to listen and continues to ignore him. Genya refuses his dismissal, stating he had fought hard to get to where he is now and even eaten a demon while doing so. Sanemi suddenly stops and glares menacingly at Genya, asking for confirmation that he heard him right.
The Hashira then vanishes from view in an instant, confusing Genya. Tanjiro bursts forth and attempts to pull his friend away as Sanemi tries to gouge his eyes out. The two crash through the wall, the sudden loud noise causing the frightful trainees to believe Sanemi has returned. Zenitsu asks Tanjiro on why he broke through the wall, just as he hears an ominous and torturous sound. As Sanemi walks to outside, which then causes Zenitsu to scream in fright, Tanjiro asks how he can possibly want to kill Genya. Sanemi dismisses his concern, knowing he cannot kill with the Corps' rules; he will instead brutalize him beyond his healing, willing to forgive him if he quits the Corps.
Tanjiro is angered by Sanemi's actions, claiming he cannot make him quit and reiterating that he previously said he doesn't have a brother, and therefore cannot choose Genya's decisions for himself. He refuses to let Sanemi interfere with Genya as he proved vital in the defeat of Upper Rank Four. Sanemi decides he will attack Tanjiro instead and lunges forth so quickly he can barely react, but the Hashira is surprised to see that Tanjiro has blocked his hand from hitting his chest. Tanjiro then twists himself to kick Sanemi in the head, shocking Zenitsu and causing Sanemi to drop him.
Genya warns Tanjiro as Sanemi has his turn to retaliate, kicking at him so quickly, his foot grazes Tanjiro's ear and cuts him. The Wind Hashira is impressed at his opponent's nerve and decides he will kill him. Genya pleads with him to leave Tanjiro alone but Zenitsu attempts to pull Genya away from the fight. Confused, Genya hears as Zenitsu states it is better to leave a quarrel, before saying that he pities him for having an older brother like Sanemi. However, he takes this as an insult and punches Zenitsu in the nose.
The brawl between Tanjiro and Sanemi soon involves the other trainees as they pull them apart. Tanjiro is scolded for his actions and training with the Wind Hashira is suspended, though Tanjiro is saddened he has seemingly worsened Genya and Sanemi's relationship. As Zenitsu and Tanjiro walk to Gyomei's stage, Tanjiro apologizes for ruining training, but Zenitsu is instead impressed he stood up to Sanemi, before ranting about the mountainous location of Gyomei's training. They reach a waterfall where trainees, including Inosuke chanting the Nenbutsu, are being pushed down by the torrent of water.
Zenitsu and Tanjiro are frightened by the scene when Gyomei speaks up from behind. They turn to see the Stone Hashira, bearing giant logs on his back, weighed down by clusters of rocks, standing barefoot atop fiery grounds, who tells them extinguishing the heart and mind can make even fires cold. He welcomes them to his training ground, as the two stand dumbfounded and shocked.
Gyomei teaches the trainees that the legs and hip are the most vital part of the body; by stabilizing the body with a firm base, it will lead to accurate attacks and strong defense. Their three tasks are to stand beneath the waterfall and withstand the pressure, carry three large logs, and finally, move a giant boulder one cho (358 feet). He believes his tasks are easy and straightforward. When Zenitsu passes out after hearing what he must do, Gyomei instructs Tanjiro to toss him into the cold river.
Zenitsu struggles to move in the water without shivering and even Tanjiro remarks the water is colder than the middle of winter. As Zenitsu leaves the water and realizes he is still cold, he notices several trainees hugging a rock; one of them, Murata, tells him the rock is warm. He immediately hugs it and is reminded of his mother's hug. Tanjiro notices Inosuke beneath the water, believing he is making good headway, but he soon notices Inosuke is silent and resuscitates his unconscious friend. Tanjiro then takes his turn under the waterfall, reciting the Nenbutsu chant to concentrate.
At the warm rocks, he chats with Murata, who comments his amazement seeing him and Inosuke, since it took him till the evening to even tolerate the cold. While he is now able to stand beneath the falls for one koku (~30 minutes), because he had been training for ten days, his new task is to move the logs. At a gathering where Tanjiro cooks fish for the trainees, Inosuke remarks about Gyomei, believing the Stone Hashira is the strongest member of the Demon Slayer Corps; Tanjiro adds that even Gyomei's scent is different to the other Hashira, thinking he might manifest the Mark soon.
Zenitsu interjects and doesn't believe Gyomei move the giant boulder one cho, and that he is only pretending just to torment them, only to see the Stone Hashira behind him pushing an even bigger boulder. When Tanjiro asks Zenitsu if he could one day be like Gyomei, Zenitsu attacks him for his high hopes in himself, which is worsened when Inosuke confidently claims he can finish Gyomei's training.
After completing the waterfall and log training, Tanjiro makes his first attempt to push the boulder, but even after breaking his slippers, he fails to move it. Because Gyomei's training isn't necessary, several trainees leave the mountain, to Tanjiro's dismay. During a break, Murata believes he knows why the Hashira don't have many Tsuguko; other trainees agree with their training being too harsh, with one commenting that some know they are too different to the Hashira and give up "like that blond guy". Murata remarks that the Hashira are amazing to do their training with ease, as Tanjiro is complimented for his food.
After six days, Tanjiro is still unable to move his boulder. Lying on the ground and panting heavily, he wonders what he is lacking and knows that demon attacks will continue soon, and so he must hurry. Dismayed his training still hasn't help him maintain his Mark, he is startled when Genya appears, asking if his mark is getting darker. Unable to contact him since his fight with Sanemi, and scolded by Gyomei, he explains he was not allowed to contact Sanemi but ignored the rule anyway. Genya thanks Tanjiro for protecting him before asking about his Mark again, which he confirms is darker than when he last saw him.
Seeing Genya is also doing boulder training, Tanjiro comments that the task seems impossible and is surprised to know Genya has moved it slightly. Genya asks him if he is doing Repetitive Action; when Tanjiro doesn't answer, he notes that Gyomei isn't a good teacher and explains that it involves doing a predetermined action to heighten concentration; he himself does by chanting the Nenbutsu. Tanjiro laughs and notes Gyomei does that too, as the Hashira watches them behind the trees.
Nakime tracking down the Demon Slayers and determining their locations and hideout.
Elsewhere, a Demon Slayer is followed by crawling demonic eyes, which bear the kanji 'four'. The Biwa Demon, Nakime, tells Muzan she has found sixty percent of the total number of Demon Slayers, but is yet to find Nezuko. Muzan is impressed by her progress and instructs her to search in a new area. As Nakime obliges, Muzan believes he will soon find Nezuko and Kagaya.
Through Genya's lesson on Repetitive Action, Tanjiro learns it enables one to open all their senses, and Genya is able to do it unlike Total Concentration Breathing. His and Gyomei's way involves remember a painful or anger-inducing memory, allowing them to increase their body temperature. Though Genya notes that while Tanjiro likely experienced something similar when he manifested his Mark, he and Gyomei have not.
Following Genya's advice, Tanjiro makes his first attempt at Repetitive Action by remembering the faces of his family; he then remembers Kyojuro's words, "Keep your heart burning", as he had always used his advice to concentrate himself. Initially, the boulder does not move, but by repeating the process to exert his full strength, Tanjiro's body feels the familiarity of gaining his Mark, causing the boulder to move slowly. As an amazed Zenitsu and Inosuke watch, Tanjiro concentrates on not stopping, using Gyomei's emphasis on his legs and hips to push. Following Tanjiro's lead, Inosuke motivates himself by thinking about tempura, giving him the drive to push his boulder. Zenitsu is angered he is the last to move his boulder but is surprised to suddenly see Chuntaro, crying while holding a letter.
Finally, Tanjiro moves his boulder one cho, completing Gyomei's training. He slumps over in utter exhaustion and dehydration as he wonders about his friends' whereabouts. He is suddenly greeted by Gyomei. Pouring water to quench the Demon Slayer's thirst, the Stone Hashira praises Tanjiro for not only completing his training, but his actions at the Swordsmith Village. Confused by his words, Gyomei explains that he had prioritized the swordsmiths' lives over Nezuko's. Tanjiro corrects him by stating it was Nezuko who made the decision as he couldn't act in the moment, believing he isn't worthy of his respects.
Gyomei ponders on this; he had long held the belief that children are not only pure and innocent, but weak, dishonest, and selfish, but he does not believe Tanjiro is any of those qualities. Tanjiro tells Gyomei he had wanted his path to be without mistakes, but since he can't know what lies ahead, someone will always help him, resulting in him getting by without making a mistake. Denying Gyomei's respect for him, he instead thanks him for the water and training. Gyomei tells him he now has no doubt, and that regardless of what others say, he respects him. Unsure of what he means, Tanjiro listens to Gyomei as he tells his story.
He once raised nine orphans at a temple; despite having no parents, they all lived harmoniously and cared for each other. One night, a child disobeyed the rules, left the temple at night, and encountered a demon. He offered the lives of Gyomei and the other children to save himself and extinguished the temple's wisteria incense. Upon entering the temple, it immediately killed four of the children. Gyomei attempted to protect the others, but they ran and ignored him, as his weak voice and skinny appearance didn't give them hope he could save them; the only child who listened was the youngest, a girl named Sayo.
The demon killed the children who ran away before attacking Gyomei, who had no choice but to fight back. Despite his immense disgust at his own violence, Gyomei punched the demon's head with all his might, crushing it and beating the creature into submission; he remarks he could have never known his strength had he not fought back. He continued fighting till dawn arrived, risking his life to save Sayo but at the loss of the others. When people came to the scene, the traumatized Sayo said, "That man is a monster! Everyone... he... killed everyone!"
As a horrified Tanjiro listens on, Gyomei notes that it was natural for a young girl only four years of age to be confused. Despite always longing to have Sayo's gratitude for saving her, Gyomei believes children simply concern themselves above all else. He was imprisoned for their murders and sentenced to death, only avoiding his fate due to Kagaya's intervention. Since then, he had become a deeply distrustful person, and naturally, he also didn't believe in Tanjiro. But he never ran, nor looked away, or lied. He was straightforward and resolute. Though it sounds trivial, Gyomei does not believe most people are like that, having seen what people are truly like. Calling Tanjiro a "special kid", Gyomei promises to help him stay on the right path.
Touched by his sincerity, Tanjiro sheds a few tears as he promises to do his best and thanks Gyomei. The Stone Hashira gently pats him on the head, reminiscent of his time with Sayo, and declares his training with him now complete.
While eating with Tanjiro and Inosuke, Genya remarks that despite everything that has happened, Gyomei is a good person; he didn't make him his Tsuguko due to his lack of talent, but because he ate demons, he instead made him his apprentice. Gyomei had him examined by Shinobu, who was understandly displeased and lectured him on eating demons any time they met. Genya comments that with Tanjiro's similarly stubborn demeanor, Shinobu would have lectured him too, though she doesn't show it. Tanjiro reassures him that she is simply worried about his health, before telling him he will train with Giyu now, asking if he could come along. Genya tells him he still hasn't moved his boulder one cho, leading Inosuke to taunt him about his lack of breathing and causing the two to fight.
Before leaving, Tanjiro had wanted to tell Genya something about Sanemi. On his way to Giyu's place, Tanjiro notices Zenitsu atop his boulder and asks if he had moved it, to which he answers he has not. Tanjiro explains he is moving to his next training but is concerned about him, noticing he hasn't been speaking much. Zenitsu bids him good luck and states he has simply achieved clarity. Worried for his friend, he asks Zenitsu if he can do anything to help, but Zenitsu tells he should do what he must. He eases his concern and thanks him for his kindness, but what he is facing now is something he must do.
Making his way through a bamboo forest, Tanjiro ponders on Zenitsu and Nezuko, who he had left alone at the start of Hashira Training, believing she is lonely and misses him. He soon arrives at a building that indicates Giyu's place is nearby. Outside in the yard, Sanemi and Giyu spar; Sanemi uses Wind Breathing, First Form: Whirlwind Dust Cutter and attacks Giyu, who blocks the blow but sustains a crack in his wooden sword. Tanjiro is stunned to see the Wind Hashira attacking so quickly but realizes he is able to see the two fight. As they trade blows, Sanemi taunts Giyu for his statement that he is different to them, dismaying Tanjiro since he knows why Giyu had said that statement.
Sanemi and Giyu snap each others' wooden blades.
The Water Hashira uses Water Breathing, Fourth Form: Striking Tide but narrowly misses his opponent's leg. Sanemi retaliates with Fifth Form: Cold Mountain Wind and Giyu defends himself with Seventh Form: Drop Ripple Thrust, causing their wooden blades to shatter. Without weapons, Sanemi proposes fighting bare-handed, but Tanjiro runs in and stands before him. Still angry at Tanjiro, he reminds the Demon Slayer he is supposed to keep away from him but is probably now following him. Tanjiro asks if they are fighting over ohagi and claims he can them some. Sanemi angrily asks if he is joking but Tanjiro answers earnestly since he knows he likes ohagi.
Giyu is surprised to know this, as Tanjiro explains he had caught the scent of ohagi fillings at Sanemi's place, and whenever he came back, he smelt green tea and ohagi. As Giyu asks if he indeed likes ohagi, Tanjiro then asks if he enjoys it either coarse or fine and claiming that he loves his grandmother's batch, only for Tanjiro to be punched in the face by the annoyed Wind Hashira.
Tanjiro awakens to see Giyu beside him, asking for Sanemi's whereabouts. The Water Hashira answers he had angrily stormed off.  When Tanjiro asks why they were fighting, Giyu notes they were just sparring, as are the other Hashira, hence the wooden swords. Tanjiro apologizes for interrupting their training but Giyu does not mind, since Sanemi was angry at him the entire time and he couldn't express himself. Now knowing his favorite food, Giyu reasons he can keep ohagi in his pocket and befriend Sanemi, which Tanjiro thinks is a pleasant idea, and perhaps they can all get along now.
Walking alone, Sanemi questions Tanjiro's antics, believing he is acting foolishly. He suddenly hears something rustling in the bushes nearby and lunges forward to grab it. In his hand is a demon's crushed eye, bearing a kanji on it, which confuses him. Outside the Ubuyashiki Estate, someone steps inside to meet Kagaya. Despite his bandages covering his eyes, Kagaya turns to his visitor and states it is the first time they have met. He calls out his visitor's name, Muzan Kibutsuji, who in turn addresses Kagaya and remarks he is in an unsightly condition.
Despite his blindness, Kagaya knows Muzan now stands before him, the demon his clan and the Demon Slayers have pursued for a thousand years. He asks Amane to describe him; Amane tells him the demon appears as a man in his mid to late twenties, his eyes are light pink and his pupils are cat-like slits. Kagaya remarks he had expected him to appear, believing Muzan's anger towards his clan has now driven him to kill him personally. Muzan confirms this, disgusted by the Ubyashikis' continual intervention during the time he has existed, but now, he finds their leader in such a deplorable state. He insults Kagaya as loathsome, indescribably ugly, and already with the scent of a corpse.
Kagaya agrees with his sentiment; six months ago, his physician had only given him days left to live then, yet he has survived until now, spurred on due to his burning anger to defeat him. Muzan only retorts all his efforts will be futile when he kills him. The Oyakata tells the demon that they are actually of the same bloodline, but being born a millennia ago, he wouldn't have known that. Muzan does not care to know and asks why Kagaya is saying this, to which Kagaya answers he is the reason for his family's curse. For the Ubuyashiki clan to bear such a monster, the bloodline was cursed so that its children would grow weak and die early.
As it faced extinction, the clan was approached by a priest, who explained that a demon was born in its bloodline. By dedicating themselves to killing the demon, the clan would survive. Kagaya adds that he married Amane because her family was brought up in priesthood. After the priest's advice, the Ubuyashikis lived slightly longer, and yet, none had lived past the age of 30. Muzan disregards his story and questions if his sickness has reached his brain. He claims his history is irrelevant to the now and adds that the heavens have never punished him despite killing thousands of people; in his thousand year long existence, he has never seen the gods or Buddha.
Kagaya then asks Muzan on what he dreams; what has he desired for his entire life. Muzan ponders on the strange situation; he has the Demon Slayer Corps' leader before him, yet he feels no hatred, but nonetheless, looking around the Ubuyashiki mansion and seeing Nichika and Hinaki playing blissfully unaware of him, he feels an odd familiarity, relieved yet disgusted. When Muzan does not respond, Kagaya offers to answer for him; Muzan's dream is eternity and to be undying. The demon agrees and mentions he will achieve it by finding Nezuko Kamado.
When Kagaya claims it will not come true, Muzan brushes his confidence in hiding Nezuko, as he has all the time to look for her when he soon dies. Kagaya states he is mistaken; he knows that the only thing that could be eternal is human feelings. Muzan denies his statement as rubbish but Kagaya continues speaking; for a thousand years, the Demon Slayer Corps has persevered despite its numerous deaths. What he has just disregarded as rubbish is proof that human feelings are undying; the refusal to forgive those who unjustly take lives, and up till now, no one has forgiven Muzan for his actions.
He remarks that Muzan has metaphorically stepped on the tiger's tail, and by doing so, he is inviting the dragon's wrath. "It" has remained asleep until he had awakened it, its eyes fixated on Muzan and will never let him escape. Kagaya states that killing him is futile as he is of little importance, before taunting Muzan for his inability to understand the eternity of human feelings, as demons will all perish should he dies. Now visibly angered at his taunts, Muzan stares silently at Kagaya, who realizes he has now captured the demon's attention. Finally, Kagaya adds that while his death is meaningless, it is not insignificant; the Demon Slayer Corps and the Hashira are fond of him, and should he die, they will be more motivated than ever before.
Muzan asks if the Oyakata has finished speaking, revealing his hand's claws ready to kill him, to which Kagaya confirms he is finished, thanking Muzan for listening to him for the entire time. At that moment, a Kasugai Crow announces an emergency summons at the Ubuyashiki Estate; Sanemi, Obanai, Mitsuri, Muichiro, Shinobu, Giyu and Tanjiro become horrified at the news and race to reach Kagaya.
In the previous Hashira meeting, Sanemi draws attention to the problem of Kagaya being unguarded, believing that at least two Hashira need to be protecting him. He and the others ask Gyomei if something can be done to change this problem. Gyomei, having served Kagaya for the longest, since he was nineteen, only responds that he had been asking that same question for eight years, and Kagaya had always denied protection each time. He had insisted that the Hashira shouldn't be wasted on him, worrying them greatly. Shinobu adds that she had heard the Ubuyashikis had never had a bodyguard of any sort throughout their history.
The Ubuyashiki Estate blows up.
Sanemi hurries through the forest, towards the Ubuyashiki Mansion. As he catches sight of it, a massive explosion destroys the mountainside, to Sanemi's sheer horror. The explosion is noticed by the rest of the Hashira, horrifying them all; Tanjiro realizes the scent of blood and burning flesh is in the air. Caught in the center of the explosion, Muzan begins to regenerate as he curses Kagaya.
In his final moments, with a smile of seemingly blissful unawareness, he has killed himself, his wife, and his two daughters Hinaki and Nichika present in the explosion. He knew he had laid a trap but could have never imagine one of this scale, as he thought to mix steel spikes as shrapnel to maximize its effectiveness and slow his healing as much as possible. Despite the trap, Muzan knows that Kagaya has something else planned, sensing that people, most likely the Hashira, must be close by all across the mountain. He thinks back to the Oyakata's final moments; the young man had managed to hide all his anger and bloodlust without Muzan ever noticing anything, something he begrudgingly commends him for.
Muzan is caught in bramble branches of demonic flesh.
As Muzan tries to put his mind towards regenerating quicker, flesh seeds appear around him. They suddenly burst into giant black bramble branches. He realizes they must be someone's Blood Demon Art but is immobilized. However, the spikes don't harm him severely and Muzan believes he can simply absorb them to escape. Tamayo unexpectedly appears and stabs her hand through Muzan's stomach, who is angered at her sudden appearance and asks her reason. Tamayo mentions the flesh seeds belong to the man in Asakusa he turned into a demon. He realizes she must have hidden herself with another Blood Demon Art, using Yushiro's talisman. She tells Muzan the drug in her fist absorbed by him will turn demons back into humans. Muzan claims such an action is impossible but she states it became possible with someone's help.
Muzan curses her stubbornness and makes the claim that her hatred of him is unjust, reminding her that she alone was responsible for the deaths of her family. She tearfully responds all she wanted was to survive her disease and see her children grow up. The Demon King mentions she had eaten other people after that and states she had fun doing so, viciously grabbing her head and stabbing her eye. Tamayo does not deny that she has killed and states that in order to atone for those deaths, she and Muzan will die together. She calls out to Gyomei, the first to arrive at the scene. With a single swing of his flail, he decapitates Muzan.
Kagaya Ubuyashiki is dead at the age of 23. The progression of his illness had eventually rendered him immobile and left him bedridden; until that day happened, Kagaya had visited the graves of the fallen Demon Slayer Corps member, never missing even a single day.
Gyomei meets Kagaya for the first time.
Gyomei recalls the first time he met Kagaya, when the Oyakata was fourteen and he himself was eighteen; it has surprised Gyomei to know that someone of his character was younger than himself. At the time, Kagaya immediately knew that he had protected the children he was accused of killing, causing the former monk to bow in gratefulness; Gyomei remembers even back then, Kagaya spoke in a way that people wanted to hear, and his solemness remained till his last moments. During the last time he personally spoke with the Stone Hashira, Kagaya predicts that Muzan will come within five days, instructing Gyomei to kill him while he uses himself as bait.
When asked about his certainty, Kagaya only responds it is just his instincts. It is revealed that the Ubuyashiki clan not only possessed their special calming voice, they had instinctual precognition that allowed them to see the future, using it to become wealthy and avoid crisis many times as a result. Kagaya knows the other Hashiras will not accept his decision of self-sacrifice, asking the Hashira he has known for the longest to carry out his last wish. Gyomei obliges, to the gratitude of Kagaya, who finally requests he does not let any of "his children" die.
Gyomei manages to successfully behead Muzan, assisted by Tamayo keeping the demon still. As Kagaya had predicted, Muzan does not die and regenerates his head completely, which does not come as a surprise to Gyomei. He recalls his late leader's words that sunlight is the only way to kill the Demon King and he surmises from the sound of his healing that Muzan's regeneration surpasses that of any demon he has faced; even after the damage he had taken from the explosion, he remains extremely powerful. He nonetheless promises to restrain him till dawn.
Gyomei tells the rest of the Hashira that they are now facing Muzan himself.
Muzan attempts to ensnare the Stone Hashira with Blood Demon Art: Black Blood, Brambles, but the attack is deflected when Gyomei performs Stone Breathing, Third Form: Stone Skin. Sanemi soon arrives and angrily asks what has become of Kagaya, to the relief of Gyomei, as do the rest of the Hashira, who all call out to Kagaya. Gyomei announces they are now facing Muzan Kibutsuji himself, to the shock of all the Hashira as none of them have ever directly encountered him. Tanjiro, the only one present who has personally faced him, angrily calls out to him.
Doors open to the Infinity Castle, trapping the Demon Slayers.
All the Hashira use their respective Breathing Styles in order to cut Muzan down: Muichiro uses Mist Breathing, Fourth Form: Shifting Flow Slash, Shinobu uses Insect Breathing, Butterfly Dance: Caprice, Obanai uses Serpent Breathing, First Form: Winding Serpent Slash, Mitsuri uses Love Breathing, Fifth Form: Swaying Love, Wildclaw, Giyu uses Water Breathing, Third Form: Flowing Dance, Sanemi uses Wind Breathing, Seventh Form: Gale, Sudden Gusts and Tanjiro attacks with Hinokami Kagura: Sunflower Thrust, but as they converge on the demon, Muzan only smiles with an eerie expression.
Giant doors suddenly appear and slide open under the Demon Slayers, causing all of them to plummet into the Infinity Castle. Muzan mocks them for believing they had him cornered, declaring they will now fall into hell and that he will kill them all. Tanjiro responds back that the only one to go to hell will be Muzan and he promises to kill him. Muzan answers his challenge: "Then do it if you can! Tanjiro Kamado!!".

Giyu catches Tanjiro to save him from falling.
As he falls into the Infinity Castle, Tanjiro is confused by his surroundings; directions and gravity are mixed around and he wonders if the place is Muzan's Blood Demon Art. Knowing Tamayo will not be able to resist him for long, he resolves to take down Muzan as quickly as possible. He quickly sees the bottom of where he is falling and attempts to grab a ledge to save himself; though he fails, an arm successfully reaches him and pulls Tanjiro to safety, revealed to be Giyu. As he thanks his friend, a demon suddenly attempts to attack him, killed when he uses Water Breathing, First Form: Water Surface Slash.
A demon horde attacks Tanjiro.
Doors open from behind Tanjiro and a large horde of demons converges on them. As Tanjiro uses Water Breathing, Sixth Form: Whirlpool, Giyu uses Fourth Form: Striking Tide; together, they slaughter all the attacking demons in rapid succession. Afterwards, an unnerved Tanjiro remarks that Giyu is incredible, quickly knowing what form he would use just from his slight movement and coordinating an attack that wouldn't accidentally hit him, as Giyu regards him with an unimpressed expression. The two make their way through the castle.
Obanai lands down and is attacked by numerous demons, which he kills using Serpent Breathing, Fifth Form: Slithering Serpent; he demands they all stay away from Mitsuri, who is ecstatic to see him save her. When he asks if she is alright, Mitsuri can barely contain her joy when she answers, before they proceed through the Infinity Castle together.  As Gyomei and Muichiro make their path, quickly cutting down any demon in their wake, Muichiro makes note of the sheer number of demons. Gyomei believes each demon is as powerful as a Lower Rank; the job of the numerous demons is to wear them down.
When Muichiro asks for Kagaya's status, Gyomei only tells him he had met a dignified end. Knowing Kagaya would have never let a demon get close, he asks the Stone Hashira if he had used himself as bait, to which Gyomei confirms he had. Accepting that Kagaya knew his limited time remaining, the Mist Hashira remembers when Kagaya had visited him as he lay in bed following a demon's attack, never leaving his side; he had also done the same to other members of the Corps. Muichiro becomes enraged that Muzan not only took his brother but their father figure, promising to make him suffer before killing him, a sentiment the equally angry Gyomei agrees with.
A furious Sanemi grieves Kagaya's death.
Sitting by himself on a wooden platform, Sanemi laments his inability to save Kagaya; when a demon attacks him, he easily slashes it to pieces without looking. Numerous more appear and converge on him, but the tearful and furious Sanemi, grieving his master's death, demands they all come to him and promising to kill each one of them. Elsewhere, Inosuke makes his way through the castle while slaughtering any demon he encounters, which he sees as the perfect way to test his training. Genya makes his way through the endless halls, confused by his surroundings and wondering if everyone else and Sanemi is alright.
Zenitsu, after hearing something in the distance, wonders if Muzan is close by, promising to never forgive him. Shinobu, after walking through a hallway, suddenly smells blood. She opens a door and sees a demon surrounded by numerous bloody corpses. Doma, upon noticing he has a visitor, remarks that Shinobu appears young and tasty, promising to thank Nakime for making his night.
Kanae tells Shinobu to quit the Demon Slayer Corps to live a normal life.
As Kanae Kocho lays dying in Shinobu's arms, she begs her younger sister to quit the Demon Slayer Corps. She knows she is trying too hard but believes that perhaps she too also wants to live a normal life and eventually grow old. Shinobu tearfully rejects this and answers she will never quit until she avenges her. She asks for what kind of demon it was who attacked her, adding that she could never live a normal life again with her death. Kanae answers the demon appears to have blood on his head; the memories of her sister's last moments in her mind as Doma greets her.
Kanae describes Doma as always grinning and laughing, speaking with a calm and kind voice, evident when he introduces himself. When one of his victims calls out to Shinobu for help, Doma chastises her for interrupting their meeting and swings at her with his Blood Demon Art. Shinobu rushes forward and takes the woman in her arms, as Doma grows impressed with her speed and wonders if she is a Hashira. However, when she asks the woman if she is alright, she suddenly falls to pieces.
Stunned by the gruesome scene she just witnessed, Shinobu stares blankly as Doma tells her to leave the woman's body, promising to eat it later. She turns to face him as she remembers Kanae mentioning her killer wields a pair of sharp fans, just as Doma reveals his weapons. The demon introduces himself as the leader of the Eternal Paradise Faith; his role is to make with those faithful to him happy and that he will devour her without wasting anything. As Shinobu realizes Doma is the demon who killed Kanae, she retorts that the woman wasn't happy pleading for her life, only for Doma to answer that he did "help" her; by killing her, she is no longer in pain or afraid.
Shinobu responds that Doma's actions sicken her.
He believes that because everyone fears death, it is his role to eat them, taking everything they were in him to "save" them. Shinobu tells Doma that his actions sicken her, surprising him with her harsh and prickly personality despite never meeting her before. Believing something painful has happened to her, he opens his ears for her to speak. The Insect Hashira answers what she feels isn't just painful; he has killed her sister, grabbing her haori and demanding he remember where he saw it.
Shinobu attacks with Dance of the Bee Sting: True Flutter, as Doma retaliates with Frozen Lotus.
Doma realizes the haori belongs to his former opponent who uses Flower Breathing; he describes Kanae as kind and cute, adding that he regrets not being able to eat her, just as Shinobu attacks him without warning. Using Insect Breathing, Dance of the Bee Sting: True Flutter, she stabs Doma in his left eye. The Upper Rank compliments her since he was unable to stop the blow, just as he retaliates with Blood Demon Art: Frozen Lotus. The extremely cold attack freezes part of her clothing and face, as Shinobu backs away and remarks that the air is so cold, it could freeze her lungs.
Though he commends Shinobu for her speed, Doma calls her attack pathetic for not beheading him. Shinobu responds that she knows this but questions if he is aware about the use of poison. Suddenly, pain strikes Doma in the head and his skin begins to decay. Shinobu, about to find out if her poison can work on an Upper Rank, remembers Kanae and hopes she can succeed. Doma falls to his knees in severe pain and vomits blood, remarking that the poison is more powerful than the one she had used on Mount Natagumo, disappointing Shinobu to realize that demons do share their information, making poison a double-edged sword.
Shinobu prepares to face Doma.
His coughing eventually slows and he gets up to face her, revealing he had successfully decomposed the poison in his body and offering her a sarcastic apology. He makes note of the sound her sword made when she sheathed it and surmises it is where she changes the poison she uses. Doma becomes excited to face a user of poison and believes he can get used to the pain, asking if she has more planned for him. Shinobu, having anticipated he would survive her initial attack, draws her blade to face Upper Rank Two.
Doma as a human child.
Doma recalls his past; born with rainbow-colored eyes and white hair, he was believed to be special and connected to the gods. His parents, whom he considered dim-witted, arranged a cult with him at the head called the Eternal Paradise Faith; despite this, he never heard the gods' voice and simply played along. Worshippers flocked to Doma to repent their issues and problems in life, hoping for advice. However, even at a young age, the unemotional Doma found it annoying that adults had come to seek wisdom from a child.
When they begged him to guide them to paradise, he cried, believing that paradise, the gods and Buddha were a fairy tale that never existed and confused as to why people wouldn't believe they were all destined to die and rot, pitying them for their inability to see reality. Doma believes he was born to make it his duty to make these people happy, by devouring them whole.
After a fifth stab on his hand fails to hurt him, Doma quickly heals himself of Shinobu's poison, before asking if she is okay after noticing she is breathing heavily. Shinobu realizes the true strength of an Upper Rank, noting Doma's resistance and the inability of her poisons to work on him. He tells her that her lungs' cells are dying after accidentally inhaling his Blood Demon Art, now making it dangerous to breathe. She then decides to use multiple blows to poison him with a larger dosage.
Doma slashes Shinobu as she retreats.
Shinobu uses Insect Breathing, Dance of the Dragonfly: Compound Eye Hexagon and rushes forward, stabbing Doma six times. He remarks that the Insect Hashira might be the fastest one he has fought, but as she backs away, Shinobu bleeds profusely, realizes she herself was also slashed in return before she could notice. Doma taunts her as she collapses to the floor in pain, mentioning that she could have easily cut off his head with her immense speed but can't due to her small frame. As blood falls on her hands, she sees just how small they are.
She remembers that she never grew taller, lamenting that she could have killed demons the usual way had she grown a bit more. Shinobu knows larger hands and legs meant more muscle and that it was a distinct advantage. She recalls that Kanae too was of a dainty frame despite being taller than her, and remarks that Gyomei has it easy with his strength, putting others at ease when he fight. Shinobu remembers Kanae's last moments with her, telling her that she would likely lose to Doma too.
Kanae's spirit appears before the injured Shinobu, telling her to stand. Shinobu believes she no longer can after losing so much blood, and with her left lung damaged by Doma's attack, she cannot breathe normally as well. Kanae declares this irrelevant and states she will win with the right resolve to kill him no matter the sacrifice, noting that she promised to her and to Kanao. Remembering their younger sister, Shinobu crouches down while Doma approaches her, noting the slashes he gave was only half-hearted, making it very painful for her. Kanae urges her younger sister to keep trying, causing her to stand up and surprising the Upper Rank. As she stares at Doma, Shinobu starts to cough blood, prompting Doma to laugh that the blood in her lungs is causing her to do so.
Shinobu evades Doma's slash and stabs him in the neck.
Resolving to behead Shinobu to end her pain, he tells her to give up, claiming she is already beyond saving. Instead, Shinobu makes a last stand, and using Insect Breathing, Dance of the Centipede: Hundred-Legged Zigzag, she speeds towards the Upper Rank to attack him. Doma is shocked at this feat, noting the destroyed bridge from the impact of her feet; he tries to slash her in response but is unable to make contact, only managing to slice her haori. Shinobu crouches down and launches into the air, driving her sword through Doma's neck and forcing his body into the ceiling in one final thrust.
Shinobu and Kanae's parents are killed.
Shinobu remembers her childhood, once believing that happiness was an endless road throughout life. That belief was shattered when a demon entered her home and killed both her parents, leaving her and Kanae orphaned. They were saved however by Gyomei Himejima, who had arrived and quickly defeated the demon. Shinobu realized that though her happiness was forever destroyed, other people's weren't, and the sisters resolved to defeat demons and prevent others from suffering the same fate as them.
She and Kanae made a promise to each other to both be Demon Slayers to do so. The two believed that despite their weak strength, stopping one demon could save dozens of people, and stopping an Upper Rank could save hundreds. It wasn't a matter of whether they could or could not, because some things in life necessitated doing.
Recalling the time when Tanjiro had asked if she was angry, she states she has been so for a long time, remembering her parents' death, her sister's death, and the deaths of all her Tsugukos before Kanao. She remembers Aoi, Sumi, Kiyo and Naho, how their families too were killed. Most of all, she is incensed at her poison's inability to hurt Doma. Her swords slips from Doma's neck, causing her to fall, but he uses his ice to catch her and pulls Shinobu into a hug.
Doma pulling Shinobu into a hug.
Doma commends Shinobu for her admirable efforts, impressed that a weak girl could do so much. Though she is not talented like Kanae, she has done well as a Demon Slayer and calls it miraculous that she isn't dead yet. It was futile to kill him, and yet she was foolish enough to try anyways, calling her fruitless endeavour the folly and wonder of humanity. Declaring that she is now worthy to be eaten and they can live together forever, Doma asks for the Insect Hashira's last words; Shinobu bitterly tells him, "Go to Hell!"
Doma absorbs Shinobu's body.
Kanao opens the door to the cult room and looks up to see Doma clutching her in the roof. Shinobu attempts to signal Kanao with her hand, but Doma notices it. As she watches, Doma breaks Shinobu's body in his arms, to Kanao's horror, killing her and causing her sword to fall from her hand. She desperately leaps upwards to use Flower Breathing, Fourth Form: Crimson Hanagoromo but misses when Doma escapes and lands onto the floor. The demon advises her not to attack him in the middle of absorbing someone, causing Kanao to seethe with rage.
Doma fails to taunt her into fighting him, wondering if Shinobu had signalled with her hands. He asks if Kanao was told about his powers, impressed that Shinobu only conveyed it in a moment. As he pats her disappearing head, the demon notes that the Hashira tried her best despite it being futile; he comments favourably about his night as "such fine feasts keep showing up one after another." As she stares at Upper Two, Kanao internalizes the feeling that somehow, the people she cares about will be alive tomorrow, and yet, it remains a fleeting hope that she cannot promise with certainty. "Why do people believe such things?"
Zenitsu approaches a room and calls for the individual inside to come out. They only respond that Zenitsu's beckoning is the improper address to a senior. Kaigaku walks out and taunts him for being as shabby as ever, but Zenitsu responds that seeing him now as a demon, he no longer recognizes Kaigaku as his senior.
As Tanjiro and Giyu run through the Infinity Castle, the former nearly falls through an opened floor, only barely managing to grab the ledge and save himself. As Giyu warns him to keep aware and alert, Tanjiro remarks it is as if the castle is alive, actively trying to separate him from Giyu. Knowing he must reach Muzan and the rest of the Corps' members, he then realizes Tamayo is running out of time, and yet they don't know where Muzan is.
A Kasugai crow then calls out the announcement that Shinobu is now dead, killed in a battle against Upper Rank Two. Upon hearing it, Tanjiro wells up with tears thinking about Kanao and the girls of the Butterfly Mansion. At the same time, Giyu notices the crow has a piece of paper attached to its neck, remarking that messages are being sent rather quickly.
Kiriya Ubuyashiki, the new Oyakata of the Demon Slayer Corps.
Similar pieces of paper, talismans of Yushiro's Blood Demon Art, appears on the head of Kiriya Ubuyashiki and his sister Kanata and Kuina. Kuina confirms Shinobu's death to Kiriya and notes the remaining Hashira are alive. He asks if she is the only one to have faced an Upper Rank and Kuina answers she is not; he then asks Kanata if all the crows sent with Yushiro's vision talismans have reached half of the Demon Slayers, to which she answers they have not.
Being the eldest son, Kiriya has now taken the mantle of Oyakata at the age of eight. Despite the deaths of his parents and sister, Kiriya does not mourn them and instead focuses on the mission, having no time to shed tears. Kuina and Kanata have also pushed their grief aside to help him. His deceased elder sisters were Nichika and Hinaki, who never left their parents' side.
As a father, Kagaya was strict in rearing his children due to his short life, quickly raising them into adulthood; Amane was similarly firm as well. With his death, Kiriya is now the leader of the Demon Slayer Corps. Due to their lacking information, Kiriya orders the crows to spread as many talismans as possible. Kuina confirms Muzan's location has not change and the Hashira are spread thin; he orders them to head north. Kuina adds that the two Demon Slayers currently facing Upper Ranks are Kanao and Zenitsu, who is facing Upper Rank Six.
Zenitsu informing Kaigaku of Jigoro's death.
Kaigaku claims that Zenitsu has not changed. "You're still a shabby, little runt. Still weak." He asks if he is now a Hashira and if he is still only able to use the first form. Zenitsu responds by noting Kaigaku's excitement in attaining the lowest position of the Upper Ranks, a rank he has taken that is only meant to fill a blank spot. Surprised, Kaigaku laughs at his new ability to talk back at him. Zenitsu asks for why he had become a demon, why someone poised to acquire Thunder Breathing would choose to become a demon, before angrily revealing that Jigoro had committed seppuku because of his defection.
He explains that during seppuku, another person must behead the condemned to prevent prolonged pain. Yet, Jigoro chose to slit his stomach instead of his throat to atone. He died in agony and alone because the wielders of Thunder Breathing had produced a demon. Kaigaku laughs off the news and mockingly asks if he should repent, claiming that he does not care about anyone who doesn't value him. He will always serve those who know his worth and is happy that Jigoro is dead because he wouldn't annoint him his sole successor despite everything he did. "The old bastard said he would make me joint successor with scum like you."
Zenitsu evades Kaigaku's attack.
As he insults their trainer as a senile old man, Zenitsu rejects his words. "If I'm scum, then you're trash! I feel sorry for Grandpa for having such pathetic successors... I can only do the first form and you can do everything except that!" Angered that he would claim they are the same, Kaigaku draws his blade and uses Thunder Breathing, Fourth Form: Distant Thunder. Zenitsu suddenly rushes past him and claims he is too slow. To the Upper Rank's shock, Zenitsu has already slit his neck, with the demon noting that he now moves like a completely different person.
Kaigaku recalls his encounter with Kokushibo.
Kaigaku remembers his encounter with Upper Rank One, believing it was not shameful to kneel before an overwhelmingly strong opponent. To him, as long as he remains alive, it would all work out in the end. It does not matter if dirt is rubbed in his face, he is forced to drink dirty water, or people curse him for stealing money; what mattered was that he was alive and that someday, he would succeed. Kokushibo asks if Kaigaku wants to become a demon and get stronger, drawing blood from his hand to drink. If Muzan recognizes him, he will transform into a demon.
He explains that to become one takes time, a process that is longer the stronger a person is; Kokushibo himself took three days to transform. Additionally, to counteract the effects of Total Concentration, much blood must be drunk, and rarely does a person's body not allow them to become a demon. Kokushibo tells the Demon Slayer to be grateful for the blood he received, threatening to behead him should he spill a drop. He reminisces on the intense fear he felt as he put the blood into his mouth, as if his cells were screaming and crying.
Compared to facing Zenitsu now, the Upper Rank is not worried. Despite gaining some strength, he believes Zenitsu remains a worthless coward, crying without dignity or perseverance. He recalls when Jigoro had offered to make them both his successors and curses his former trainer for comparing him to his junior. As he angrily declares that they both deserved to die, Kaigaku uses Thunder Breathing, Second Form: Rice Spirit, attacking Zenitsu with five consecutive slashes and injuring his face. Zenitsu remarks that with the consecutive attacks, Kaigaku has already eaten much victims, believing he can't tell good from evil anymore.
Kaigaku wounds Zenitsu with Sixth Form: Rumble and Flash.
Kaigaku responds he does know, as he uses Third Form: Thunder Swarm to weave around Zenitsu and injure him further. He explains his belief that those who know his worth are good and those who don't are evil. Using Fifth Form: Heat Lightning, Kaigaku slashes and burns Zenitsu simultaneously, asking if he enjoys his blade infused with his Blood Demon Art, before attacking him again with Sixth Form: Rumble and Flash, wounding Zenitsu all throughout his body; Kaigaku gloats that with his immense power both burning and slashing him, he has become a demon to surpass Thunder Breathing.
As Zenitsu falls, with the demon remarking he is truly different to him, he recalls when Jigoro once pointed to Kaigaku as an example. Thunder Breathing as a style revolves around using the first form as a foundation; as such, it didn't matter if someone that used the other forms when they couldn't do the first. Knowing this, he recalls that even when Kaigaku was a lesser user of the style, he retained an arrogant personality, dismissing anyone who he perceived to be beneath him, despite himself knowing that Kaigaku could never be a Hashira as a result.
He understands why Kaigaku hates him, but despite also returning the sentiment, he still respected Kaigaku for his hard work. To him and Jigoro, Kaigaku was a special person, yet none of it satisfied him. He compares Kaigaku's heart to a box with a hole that held his happiness; despite whatever went in, it could never fill up.
Zenitsu beheads Kaigaku using Seventh Form: Honoikazuchi no Kami.
Apologizing to Jigoro for the two of them taking different paths, he uprights his body and plants his feet along the wall to stop his descent. As Kaigaku watches with surprise, Zenitsu apologizes to him and attacks with Thunder Breathing, Seventh Form: Honoikazuchi no Kami, instantly decapitating Upper Rank Six. As he plummets, Kaigaku tries to comprehend what had just happened, unable to see the attack. He curses Jigoro for favoring Zenitsu by teaching him an exclusive form, but Zenitsu denies their trainer was such a person. This form was of his creation, one he had hoped to use to fight alongside him.
Yushiro taunts Kaigaku for his lonely death, before saving Zenitsu.
After Zenitsu beheads Kaigaku with Thunder Breathing, Seventh Form: Honoikazuchi no Kami, both fall in the Infinity Castle to their deaths. Zenitsu plummets while unconscious as the disintegrating Kaigaku grows furious at his defeat by Zenitsu's hand, angered that the one he believed to be weaker than himself had managed to create a seventh form. He comforts himself with the idea that he too will die with him when he hits the bottom.
Suddenly Yushiro enters Kaigaku's vision, telling him that those who never give anything will one day never gain from others, and that only wanting is the same as having nothing when they cannot create for others, before coldly telling the fallen Upper Rank that it is pitiful to die alone. Yushiro leaps across the walls and catches the unconscious Zenitsu, while the fallen Upper Rank disintegrates to ash, marking a pathetic end to the prideful and traitorous Demon Slayer.
Zenitsu see himself in the afterlife, a land full of red spider lilies; he sees his master Jigoro across the Sanzu River, separating the two. He apologizes to him for never getting along with Kaigaku despite his attempts to reach out, believing if it wasn't for him, Kaigaku wouldn't have been goaded into becoming a demon. He apologizes for never repaying his debts, and adds that he truly wanted to become a Hashira whilst he was alive. However, Jigoro remains silent, and Zenitsu, believing he still hates him, asks for his trainer to say something to him.
Suddenly, the lilies begin to wrap around his feet, pulling him into the ground. Watches as he sinks lower, Jigoro tearfully informs his former student, "Zenitsu... I'm proud of you", causing him to tear up as well. In reality, Zenitsu awakens to Yushiro patching his wounds, surrounded and guarded by more Demon Slayer. Murata, who recognizes him, asks on his condition and whether he can be saved. Annoyed by his yelling and begging, Yushiro only tells him to keep on guard.
Yushiro telling Murata that his screams draws the attention of several demons.
Murata does not taken kindly to his orders and demands to know his rank but the demon ignores him while administering a styptic to stop Zenitsu's bleeding, though he notes that the cuts on his face might worsen. Murata chastises him for his pessimism and comforts Zenitsu, as the others tell him he will be saved as well. Yushiro remarks was lucky that Kaigaku had not mastered his techniques, saying he could have killed him had he progressed in a years. Murata once again demands he keep positive, but his screaming draws the attention of several demons.
Yushiro, the only demon to not be created by Muzan Kibutsuji, recalls when Tamayo had told him to act naturally as he assisted the Demon Slayers, though his dissatisfaction was plainly written on his face. After changing his eye color and donning a uniform, the others did not suspect Yushiro to be a demon, though they sensed that something was not right. Murata struggles to sever a demon's neck, causing Yushiro to demand he hasten his effort. He uses a Kasugai crow with his talisman to sense his surroundings, but grows concerned when something is nearby.
Tanjiro becomes enraged to see Akaza again.
As Tanjiro and Giyu continue through the castle, he notices they have not encountered any Upper Ranks, before wondering on the whereabouts of Muzan and the other Hashira. As he tries to tell himself they will succeed, the hallway they are in begins to shake violently as something approaches them. He wonders if it is a battle but senses it is approaching them, recognizing its scent. Giyu warns him to stay back as the ceiling cracks open; Akaza lands down to face the two and taunts Tanjiro, surprised that someone as weak as him is still alive, before lunging at Tanjiro while yelling his name. Angered to see the familiar face, Tanjiro dodges and yells out his name in return, ready to fight Upper Rank Three.
Elsewhere, hovering above a bottomless shaft, Tamayo finds herself trapped in a fleshy cocoon. Noticing it is able to decompose her human-conversion drug, she realizes it will absorb her as well in enough time and pleads for someone to save her.
Tengen and Shinjuro guard the Ubuyashikis.
While in the process of mapping out the Infinity Castle, Kanata begins to envision the recently deceased members of her family. Her emotions begin to overwhelm her and her eyes well up with tears, but Kiriya tells her to stop crying and continue with her task, reassuring her that they will win. Kanata acknowledges his orders and recomposes herself to continue. Sitting outside the room of the Ubuyashikis are the former Hashiras Tengen Uzui and Shinjuro Rengoku. Tengen marvels at Kiriya's mental fortitude, continuing his mission despite the lingering anguish of his father's death.
Shinjuro agrees and is amazed that children so young have taken on an enormous responsibility. He promises to risk his life to protect them, as Kyojuro did, in order to no longer bring shame to his family name. Elsewhere in the estate, Sakonji tends to an unconscious Nezuko; despite using Tamayo's human-conversion drug on her as told, she seems to be in pain, sweating profusely and groaning. He notes that if she truly can be human again, Muzan's scheme will fall apart, losing the only demon in a thousand years to ever be resistant to sunlight.
However, Sakonji himself is also trembling and sweating in sheer nervousness. Whenever he thinks about the battle's eventual endgame, he grows anxious to realize the ancient war of humans and demons might soon end, something he will witness. He reminisces on Tanjiro and realizes he had always played a pivotal part. Since bringing his sister to him, Sakonji had felt as if cogs had begun to turn. The ancient war is but a giant machine, and with the introduction of him and Nezuko, it is as if two added cogs have shifted the stagnant situation to begin moving. He hopes that the siblings will not lose.
Tanjiro evades Akaza's punch using Hinokami Kagura: Fire Wheel.
As Akaza throws a punch at Tanjiro, the Demon Slayer performs Hinokami Kagura: Fire Wheel to flip over him and catch his arm with his blade. He summons the strength to slice it off, but Akaza regenerates it back and quickly retaliates by swinging his fist back at his head. Using Hinokami Kagura: Fake Rainbow, he evades the blow and appears behind the demon, while also managing to slash through his head. Giyu is impressed to see Tanjiro has progressed in his technique so much, as Akaza stares curiously at his attacker; he remarks that he can confidently say his ability is now that of a Hashira's to be able to handle an Upper Rank.
Giyu becomes amazed by Tanjiro's rapid progression.
On the first day they met, all Tanjiro could do was despair in his weakness and beg for Nezuko's life to be spared; now able to fight, Tanjiro won't ever again lose his life or his dignity. Akaza suddenly remembers Kyojuro's words, "This boy is not weak. Do not insult him", and realizes now he was telling the truth. He remarks that Tanjiro is certainly no longer weak, and to show he has earned his respect, Upper Rank Three performs Technique Development, Destructive Death: Compass Needle, to celebrate his opponent's new strength in a battle.
Giyu blocks Akaza's Disorder with Eleventh Form: Dead Calm.
Using Water Breathing, Third Form: Flowing Dance, Giyu maneuvers around Akaza and evades his numerous attacks; Akaza remarks that it had been fifty years since he fought a Water Hashira, using Destructive Death: Disorder to force him to retaliate. Giyu uses Water Breathing, Eleventh Form: Dead Calm to dispel the shockwaves; Akaza becomes impressed, having never seen the technique as the last Water Hashira he had killed did not use it. Tanjiro attacks him from behind, using Hinokami Kagura: Raging Sun to go for his neck.
Akaza evades the slashes and appears behind him, attempt to chop off his head. He fails to perform Hinokami Kagura: Fake Rainbow in time but is saved when Giyu slashes off the Upper Rank's arm with Water Breathing, Second Form: Water Wheel, though he regenerates the limb instantly. The two clash head on; attacking again from behind him, Tanjiro tries using Hinokami Kagura: Flame Dance to cut down the demon but Akaza uses Destructive Death: Leg Type, Crown Splitter to fend him off. He blocks the attack with his sword but his nose still bleeds from the sheer force of Akaza's kick.
Akaza launches Giyu with Leg Type: Explosive Flurry.
As Akaza evades Giyu's slashes, he marvels at his superb technique and demands to know his name, wishing to remember. Giyu refuses to divulge his name to the demon and tells him he hates talking; the amused Akaza responds that he enjoys talking in battle and decides he will continually ask for it instead. Using Destructive Death: Leg Type, Explosive Flurry, Akaza kicks at Giyu in rapid succession and launches him away with his shockwaves; despite blocking the attack with his sword's handle, Giyu is sent flying through numerous walls.
Burning Bones, Summer Sun clashes with Eight-Layered Demon Core.
Tanjiro attempts to call out to Giyu but Akaza appears before him, satisfied to know the Hashira's name. The Demon Slayer and Upper Three clash, with Tanjiro performing Hinokami Kagura: Burning Bones, Summer Sun and Akaza retaliating with Destructive Death: Eight-Layered Demon Core. The attack's vibrations ring loudly in his sword but Tanjiro is able to escape the attack unharmed. Akaza compliments him for his growth and his training to reach his level. He commends Kyojuro for Tanjiro's success, recalling their first encounter when he was lying on the ground too weak to be notices, but as of right now, he is happy and excited to battle him.
He tells Tanjiro he is glad that Kyojuro is dead, believing he had already reached his peak because he valued being human. Upon hearing the demon's statement, Tanjiro becomes furious and demands he take back his words. Confused, Akaza responds he is praising the two of them, but Tanjiro retorts he is only insulting those he calls weak. The demon believes Tanjiro misunderstands him and states that he only despises the weak because it disgusts him; to him, it is the law of nature to weed out the weak.
Tanjiro tells Akaza that him standing now is proof he is wrong; everyone begins life as a baby, born weak and needing help from someone, including him. He states that the true law of nature is that the strong protect the weak, and the weak become stronger to help those less than them; telling Akaza his way of thinking is unforgivable, he declares his days of doing what he pleases are over, causing the demon to clench his fist in anger.
Facing off against Tanjiro, Akaza cannot brush aside the repulsive feeling he is giving him. He is unsure why he feels angry fighting him since he knows Tanjiro is no longer weak, yet he cannot shake the feeling of his eyes, voice and words cutting into him. At that moment, someone seemingly grabs Akaza's shoulder and confirms Tanjiro's words; everyone starts off weak, then they get help from everyone around them and learn, but that he should only compare his own progress against himself, not that of others.
The man tells him what is important is becoming stronger than he was yesterday, and by developing himself, soon he can be the one to help people. Angered, Akaza tries to punch behind him to hit the man, but strikes nothing. As a bewildered Tanjiro sees Akaza punch the air suddenly, Upper Rank Three angrily mutters, "Tanjiro, you really are unpleasant".
Akaza attacks Tanjiro with Flying Planet Thousand Wheels.
Akaza suddenly lunges at Tanjiro and uses Destructive Death: Crushing Type, Ten-Thousand Leaves Flashing Willow, rupturing the ground around him, with Tanjiro just barely dodging the attack. As he becomes stunned to see Akaza's new speed and precision, the demon quickly engages the Demon Slayer again from below and uses his Destructive Death: Leg Type, Flying Planet Thousand Wheels, with Tanjiro enduring the blow and vomiting blood as a result. Akaza swings at him but Tanjiro barely ducks down to avoid it, all while he tries to rationalize how the Upper Rank's attacks are so potent.
With his techniques possessing unparalleled precision, as if his fists are magnetized to his vital areas, he tries to understand what he is gauging his attacks on, thinking back to his battle with Kyojuro to find the answer. Using Hinokami Kagura: Solar Heat Haze, Tanjiro slashes at Akaza's neck; his blade seemingly distorts as it slashes him, despite Akaza believed he dodged it by moving away from it. He is amused to see the unusual technique and asks how he performed it, continuing to attack Tanjiro as the Demon Slayer struggles to fend off the relentless onslaught.
At the Rengoku estate, Senjuro prays to his older brother; a large battle has begun and their father is away to protect the Oyakata, asking that Kyojuro protect him and Tanjiro. He thinks back to the letter he sent to Tanjiro; though it was a trivial matter, he had written to him about a conversation the Sengoku era's Flame Hashira had with a user of Sun Breathing. The swordsman had explained his experience of fighting Muzan, but upon hearing his story, the Hashira lost his confidence. Despite this, Senjuro prays that Tanjiro won't lose, wondering if Kyojuro agrees.
Giyu slashes Akaza's hands to save Tanjiro.
In the midst of the battle, it is revealed that Senjuro's Kasugai Crow has indeed entered the Infinity Castle, but has not given Tanjiro his letter and is watching the battle behind cover, forcing him to defeat Akaza in order to read it. Tanjiro uses Hinokami Kagura: Dance and swings down at the demon, but Akaza catches the blade mid-slash and attempts to break it. In a desperate move, he headbutts Upper Three, but Akaza only compliments him for his efforts.
He kicks Akaza in the chin but he continues to maintain his hold. As the blade begins to creak, Akaza's hands are suddenly slashed off, saving Tanjiro. He looks up and sees Giyu has returned, as the Water Hashira becomes angry at the severe pain in his back from being launched by Akaza.
As Giyu and Akaza face each other, Giyu rationalizes why he fights as an individual. Though he is usually hesitant to draw his sword and isn't one to fight for amusement, standing now and facing an opponent who can overwhelm him, he realizes his senses have sharpened in a short amount of time; senses that once lie dormant in him and just now are brought out onto the battlefield he stands on. He finally understands the intense struggle to increase one's own skills; as Tanjiro looks on, the Water Hashira manifests a splash-like mark on his cheek.
A Marked Giyu attacks Akaza with Fourth Form: Striking Tide.
Giyu makes a powerful swing at Akaza, just barely missing his mark. The demon responds with a punch straight to his head but Giyu ducks down and slashes his neck, forcing Akaza to back away. Tanjiro notes that with his Mark manifested, Giyu's speed has increased greatly; the Hashira uses Water Breathing, Fourth Form: Striking Tide and attacks Upper Three head-on, splitting the demon's arm but sustaining a gash to his head. Watching from a distance, Tanjiro notes that despite both fighters moving at tremendous speeds, Akaza was able to quickly adapt to Giyu's enhanced abilities.
Realizing that a lengthy battle will decided by a demon's endless strength and that their true goal is defeating Muzan, he scrambles to find a way to beat Akaza. He tries to understand how the demon attacks so precisely and is able to react to attacks he cannot immediately see. Recalling when Akaza had complimented Kyojuro on his highly developed fighting spirit, he attempts to define what it is and recalls a conversation he had with Inosuke.
In the Butterfly Mansion, Inosuke informs Tanjiro he feels a tingle where an opponent is aiming at him, which Tanjiro surmises is the reason he was able to survive when Gyutaro had stabbed him from behind. He claims that even when someone is behind him, he can determine where they are looking; as a demonstration, he asks Tanjiro to look at his back, upon which he correctly answers that he was looking at his right shoulder. Inosuke adds that when someone looks at him with the intent to kill, he can tell immediately.
Remembering this moment, Tanjiro realizes Inosuke was able to do so because of his honed sense of touch. At the same time, Inosuke had angrily remarked that if someone isn't looking at him with hostility, he cannot sense them; he points out the old woman at the Wisteria House, as she once sat behind Inosuke without him able to detect her. He believes that if he was able to get close to an opponent without emitting hostility, they wouldn't be able to detect him. However, Tanjiro added that while an elderly lady had no reason to harm him, it would be impossible to kill a demon without showing hostility.
Akaza catches Tanjiro's sword without looking.
Despite remembering the moment as a silly conversation, he realizes it was still able to help him learn. What Akaza senses is something he calls "fighting spirit" but he remains unsure of what it is exactly and whether he can use it to disrupt Akaza's Compass Needle. As the two continue to clash, Akaza parries Giyu's blade, throwing him off-balance and attempting to throw a punch. Tanjiro goes for his exposed neck and uses Hinokami Kagura: Dance, but the Upper Rank grabs his sword from behind him and throws a punch with his other hand, mocking Tanjiro for leaving himself open.
He is barely able to dodge the blow and sustains a cut across his stomach. Giyu engages him again as Tanjiro backs away, attempting to find what Akaza is sensing until he has an epiphany.
Tanjiro remembers how his father seemed like a plant; he was never temperamental and was always calm, maintaining his demeanor until his death. Whenever he remembers him, he immediately thinks of his gentle smile and calming voice. Tanjiro recalls a time he had asked him about what he thinks when he performs the Hinokami Kagura. Even as a child, Tanjiro knew that the practice was physically demanding, as it involved performing all twelve forms from sunset to sunrise continuously. Worried about his frail body, Tanjiro asks if he can be the one to do it next year.
Tanjuro thanks his son for his concern but brushes aside his worry, stating that in the last few years he performed it, he never believed it to be difficult. He remembers learning it from his own father, but comments that even though he was younger and healthier back then, doing it exhausted him greatly. He surmised it was because the forms had unnecessary movements; instead, what matters was maintaining proper breathing and control, making the most efficient moves to exert the most strength. Tanjuro states that by doing this, your mind gradually becomes clear.
In the beginning, he must learn to pick up the movements and sensibilities to open all his senses and become conscious of his own body, down to his very blood vessels. It is this process that is extremely strenous and presents the most self-doubt in himself, maybe even believing that he will not succeed despite his progress. After gaining the knowledge, he will know to remove what is unnecessary and close himself off. Eventually, he can control the vessels and muscles in his body as easily as blinking, and once he clears his head, he will see the Transparent World, though only through pushing himself to his strength limits. When Tanjiro asks if he can attain it, Tanjuro reassures him that he can with diligent work, before presenting him with new warajis.
Tanjuro confronts a bear threatening his family.
Ten days before Tanjuro's death, a bear had come to the mountain they lived in and killed people. As the Kamado family sleeps through a blizzard, Tanjuro suddenly awakens and gets up from, after which he asks his eldest son to accompany him. As Tanjuro and a still sleepy Tanjiro wandered outside, the two encounter the bear, standing almost nine shaku tall and believed to have killed six people. Hiding behind a tree,  Tanjiro watches his father confront the bear despite his illness and armed with only an axe; they had strung ropes with bells attached as a warning but his father knew it was nearby without hearing them.
Tanjuro apologizes for its hunger but warns the creature not to come any closer; if anything tries to harm his family, he will show it no mercy and take its life. As the bear roars and lumbers forward to kill him, Tanjuro swings his axe and leaps up, decapitating the bear before it could move a step. As its giant head drops to the ground, Tanjiro tries to piece together what had happened; in that moment, Tanjuro would have had to swing twice to get completely through its neck, and with his sense of smell, he realizes he never wavered in the slightest.
Tanjiro enters the Transparent World.
Before and after killing it, he showed no fear, no ill will, and maintained his usual calm self. As he turns to ask if his son had observed him, Tanjiro answers that he did and hugs him; Tanjuro tells him to remember the events of today. Looking back at that night, he realizes his father had given him a lesson to see the Transparent World, much like his descendants before him had to learn. It is then he understands his father's advice and how he was able to dodge Akaza's potentially lethal strike.
For just an instant, when the demon grabbed his blade and was poised to swing, Tanjiro had entered the Transparent World, his vision was heightened and he could see Akaza's muscles through his body. Managing to close off his other senses to dodge something unavoidable, his body became even faster. Realizing he should have never doubted Inosuke for his advice, he resolves to take down Akaza whilst he battles Giyu.
Tanjiro sees Akaza with the Transparent World.
Having seen the Transparent World momentarily, Tanjiro realizes his own perception and speed have increased dramatically; he was able to predict Akaza's attacks and evade them. His breathing and the flow of his blood became visible to him, and he even saw his own muscles contract; he determines that by closing off his Fighting Spirit, he may be able to behead him.
As the now desperate Giyu uses Water Breathing, Tenth Form: Constant Flux against Akaza, the demon only sustains a shallow cut to his neck, while the Hashira is wounded in his shoulder. He notes that making any powerful attack on Akaza will only responded to with equal force, leaving him nowhere to go when his attempts to attack him are now predictable. He marvels at the sheer power of Upper Rank Three, a killing machine whose only purpose is to fight.
Akaza snaps Giyu's blade.
As Akaza taunts Giyu for using all of his forms, he prepares to end the battle and expresses surprise he has lasted thus far. Tanjiro, watching as Akaza gets close to Giyu, observes the demon and attempts to concentrate. Giyu slashes down on the demon's neck, but Akaza intercepts the slash, using his fist to break off the Hashira's Nichirin katana. Shocked at his weapon breaking, Giyu stands helplessly as Akaza bids him goodbye and aims a punch at his chest. Blood sprays from his hand is but it is Akaza's own, his hand has been suddenly sliced off as Tanjiro uses Hinokami Kagura to save Giyu, who notes that the sound of his breathing has changed.
Akaza uses Final Form: Blue Silver Chaotic Afterglow.
Observing the Demon Slayer as he stands to face him, Akaza grows alarmed as he senses the changed Tanjiro is now exceedingly dangerous. Using Technique Development, Final Form: Blue Silver Chaotic Afterglow, Upper Three summons his Compass Needle and launches numerous explosives shockwaves in an omni-direction attack. Giyu panics at his increased power and speed; he wonders if he can negate it with Dead Calm, but now seeing into the Transparent World, Tanjiro instead wonders if time has slowed or Giyu and Akaza have.
Though he uses his eleventh form, Giyu sustains severe wounds across his body as the shockwaves pass through his defensive stance. Akaza is impressed to see the Water Hashira survive the attack and offers to transform him into a demon, telling not to die like Kyojuro and Tanjiro. Instead, Giyu is stunned to see Tanjiro standing behind the Upper Rank, who is now unable to sense him. As Tanjiro looks at Akaza's neck, he angrily calls out the demon's name, causing Giyu to chide him for giving away his position. Akaza swings but Tanjiro evades the punch and goes for an attack.
Tanjiro beheads Akaza with Setting Sun Transformation.
Initially surprised Tanjiro has survived his attack, he pays no attention and believes his Compass Needle will sense him. However, he is unable to sense anything as his Fighting Spirit is now absent. Taken aback at first, Akaza composes himself and waits for the attack to be detected, but Tanjiro has already used Hinokami Kagura: Setting Sun Transformation and beheaded the Upper Rank, much to his and Giyu's shock.
Akaza compares fighting Tanjiro to fighting a plant.
After being beheaded by Tanjiro, Akaza reflects on the moment; in the last few hundred years, he had never seen someone without Fighting Spirit; even a baby crying shows it is fighting to live. Tanjiro's Fighting Spirit had disappeared completely, like he was fighting a plant, an anomaly that should not exist and caused his Compass to not respond. Still, he pushes past the challenge of not sensing Tanjiro, knowing that in battle, it is vital to immediately understand and handle the unexpected.
Yet, he understood that Tanjiro had grasped something and surpassed his speed, attacking head-on to defeat hundreds of years of martial arts experience. His eyes bored no malice or Fighting Spirit and Akaza realizes he had perceived the "Domain of Supremacy", a Selfless State whose vague existence was something he knew but could never have attained.
Akaza puts his detached head back onto his body and attempts to heal, vowing to keep fighting and get stronger. Tanjiro realizes what he is trying to do and Giyu responds by hurling his broken sword at the demon's head, knocking it away from his body. Despite his head now separated, Akaza still attempts to will himself and continue getting stronger, but the head begins to disintegrate to ash, eventually leaving Giyu's sword where it lands. Tanjiro grows relieved as he sees he has won, but his body begin to tremble from reaching his limit.
Akaza uses Compass Needle despite his decapitation.
However, the two notice Akaza's body has not faded yet. As they look on in anxious anticipation, his body suddenly performs Technique Development: Compass Needle and takes a fighting stance, the neck staunching its wound to stop the bleeding.  The headless body attacks Tanjiro and attempt to chop off his neck, only barely missing when he dodges the blow. As it attempts to grow a new head, it kicks Tanjiro in the side and sends him crashing into a wall. In pain and shock, Tanjiro questions how he could've failed to kill Akaza despite beheading him.
Despite his wounds, Giyu vows to protect Tanjiro from Akaza.
He initially believes he has a special condition, as with Gyutaro and Daki, but remembering how he saw the severed head burn to ash; instead, Akaza is attempting to evolve even further, and like Muzan, he is trying to extend his weakness beyond his head. As he attempts to getting up, Tanjiro finally loses consciousness after having reached his body's limit. Watching from behind them and see him vulnerable, Giyu picks up his broken sword and uses Water Breathing, Fourth Form: Striking Tide, but the headless body heals the slashes almost instantly.
Without his Mark, Giyu is quickly overwhelmed by Akaza's attacks and is brought down. The demon turns to Tanjiro with the intent to kill but the Hashira yells at the demon that he is still alive, and if he wants to get to Tanjiro, he must defeat him first. A voice rings in Akaza, telling him that indomitable wills won't ever break in any hardship, and that while "they" are not samurai who carry a sword, they carry swords in their heart and use their fists. Akaza disregards the voice as a nuisance and attempts to confront Giyu, but he is held back by a young woman, who tearfully tells him, "Hakuji, that's enough."
As Giyu readies to fight Akaza once more, he realizes the direness of his situation; his left ear hearing is gone, his right hand is numb, and he can't tell how much strength he has left. As with how sprinting can only be done for so long till the point of exhaustion, reaching past one's physical limits results in precision being lost and heavy strain on the muscles, hands, and feet. Demons on the other hand, don't feel pain, nor do they tired; it is a miracle anyone can battle an Upper Rank with just a Breathing Style. Despite the odds, Giyu resolves to save Tanjiro and prevent the death of another person who saved him.
Akaza is stopped by the hallucination of a woman.
The woman urges Akaza to stop and holds onto his hand, who demands she let go and asks who she is. She begs him to leave but the demon wishes to kill Giyu and Tanjiro. When asked why he wants to kill them, he answers that he must become stronger, and when the woman asks why he must, Akaza responds, "Because... if I'm not strong, I can't bring it back. Medicine for my father." As his life flashes before his eyes, he remembers he wanted to get stronger so that he could steal money, fight back against his victims when they retaliate, and endure beatings at the magistrate's office when he is caught.
A young Hakuji is beaten for stealing.
Tied up and bloody from his lashings, Akaza, then known as Hakuji, is presented before the magistrate, who warns him after getting tattooed for his crimes, the next punishment is losing a hand. Hakuji laughs and dismisses the threat, claiming that without hands, he can still use his feet, vowing to never get caught again. The magistrate reminds him even at the age of eleven, he is already a repeat offender and endures beatings severe enough to make a grown man faint, calling him a 'demon child'. After leaving the office, Hakuji laughs off being insulted as a demon child and claims he was born with teeth. Suddenly, a man informs him that his father had hung himself upon learning he was caught.
At the cemetery, holding a letter from him in his hand, he finds his father's headstone. The letter he wrote to him reads: "Dear Hakuji. Live a righteous life. You can still change. I didn't want to live if it meant stealing from people. I am sorry for troubling you". Clutching his headstone, Hakuji mourns his father, angrily asking if the poor were even allowed to live and cursing the world for his death.
A grieving Hakuji releases his rage at a group of strangers.
Hurt and enraged, Hakuji walked into a town and started a brawl, brutally beating several men as they tried to fight back against him, all while denouncing them for being alive as his father dies. He yells out that he wasn't a bother who needed to apologize for anything, and for his sake, he could take any punishment they give him no matter the severity. His father's condition had begun to worsen but he was sure he could save him, yet he chose to hang himself and die, a choice he was prepared to make himself and do for him. As his victims lay unconscious and Hakuji takes time to breathe, a martial artist offers him a slow clap and commends his skill. He notes he had been summoned with the news that a child was about to be killed, only to instead see that said child has knocked seven grown men unconscious.
The man tells Hakuji he has promise and is impressed by his skill to fight bare-handed; Akaza wonders who he is as he realizes he is seeing his memories. When the man asks if he could come to his dojo since he has no students, Hakuji angrily dismisses his offer and threatens to kill him. He notes that he has tattoos branding him as a criminal from Edo, meaning he was banished and came here, but Hakuji pays no heed and claims it has nothing to do with him. The man tells him it is time he is reborn and takes a fighting stance; Hakuji lunges at him with all his rage but the man throws numerous rapid punches at the boy, knocking him unconscious.
When he regains consciousness, the man is amazed at his toughness despite the severe beating he received, only waking up after an hour. He introduces himself as Keizo, a martial teacher at a dojo that teaches the Soryu Style, though he earns a living through odd jobs due to having no students. As Hakuji follows behind him, Keizo explains his new job is to nurse his sick daughter whilst he is away; his wife grew tired of having to care for her and drowned herself, and burdened by her death, he became weak-willed. Hakuji questions if Keizo would want a criminal to care for his daughter, but Keizo notes that since he had defeated him, it is okay with him now.
Akaza meets Koyuki.
It is then that Akaza realizes the reason he dislikes Tanjiro is because he reminds him of Keizo, a figment of his worthless life's story. Keizo introduces him to his daughter Koyuki, and her condition reminds Hakuji of his father's own illness. He asks if she is feeling better than before and introduces her to the boy behind him, who refuses to give his name. Keizo asks that she get it before he comes back and leaves to go to work. Alone with Hakuji, Koyuki asks if he is okay, seeing his injuries; Akaza remarks that his worthless life was nothing but lies.
Koyuki apologizes for burdening Hakuji, which he does not mind.
Hakuji questions why the ill are always apologizing for what they can't control. They want independence, but cannot move, and despite suffering, they blame themselves. While helping Koyuki, she apologizes because he is unable to train or have fun with her; her condition had worsened, leading to him spending all night changing her bedding and towels, giving her water, and helping her relieve herself. However, having helped his father with his illness and with superior endurance to most, Hakuji was not bothered.
He tells Koyuki he spends his time training anyway and does not mind staying in. She insists that he leave her sometimes, having heard there would be fireworks tonight and insisting he go. He responds he can simply carry her and they can go see them together. She becomes confused, and he explains that even if she can't go today, they will be on each year and she can go see them then. Upon hearing this, Koyuki begins to cry; dismayed, Hakuji notes it is the one thing he didn't like about nursing her, believing that being sick and bedridden was making her sad, something he didn't enjoy.
While taking a drink with Keizo, the master notes that the kanji for "Haku" in Hakuji is the same as "Koma" in Komainu, believing that both of them must protect something like a Komainu protecting its shrine, a fact that makes him laugh. Hakuji recounts how Keizo came to own the dojo; though he wasn't a samurai, he owned the land because he had saved the owner from bandits. Impressed with his fighting and without an heir, the man gave Keizo his land and dojo. However, others who wanted the land were displeased Keizo took ownership; a nearby kenjutsu dojo began to harass Keizo's dojo, leading him to have difficulty finding students. Despite this, lessons with him and helping Koyuki healed Keizo's heart.
Keizo asks Hakuji if he would be his successor to the dojo.
Years later, Hakuji is now eighteen and Koyuki is sixteen. No longer sick, she was bright, cheery, and eager to help in the dojo, happy to live normally. One day, Keizo calls Hakuji over to the main room, where he asks if Hakuji would like to be his successor to the dojo, adding that Koyuki likes him, rendering both teens speechless. Having been branded a criminal, he never imagined himself with a future, let alone one where someone likes him. He realizes he is now able to live the righteous life his father had asked, giving him the hope that he could start anew. Hakuji bowed in gratitude to Keizo, recalling at that moment, he would give his life to Koyuki and Keizo, and as such, he could have never imagined them poisoned to death.
Hakuji went to his father's grave to tell him he would be getting married, but while returning, he saw people at the front of the dojo, giving him a terrible premonition. He is told that the well they drank from was poisoned, because the assailant couldn't beat him or Keizo in a battle. Inside the dojo, Hakuji saw the bodies of Koyuki and Keizo, their clothes bloody and faces covered. He lamented that once more, a crisis has happened and he wasn't there to save the people he loved, even when he promised. Previously, while watching a display of fireworks, Koyuki asked him if he had remembered when they both talked about seeing them, to which he vaguely recalls.
She tells him that even such a minor conversation made her happy, because even when she couldn't see them then, he had told her she could see them next year. Koyuki couldn't imagine living another year; her mother felt the same way, which she believes is the reason she killed herself. She knew that even her father had given up on her because she was so weak. Despite it, she remarks when he told her about the coming years, it was as if Hakuji could see her future and stated it as a matter of fact. She asks if he would be her husband, holding his hand. Hakuji holds hers and says yes, promising to become stronger than anyone else and protect her for life; Hakuji bitterly remarks that in the end, he never lived up to his promise.
Hakuji massacres the rival dojo in a fit of rage and grief.
Records at the magistrate's office recount details of a gruesome massacre; enraged at losing the people he loved once again, Hakuji attacked the kenjutsu dojo and killed 67 of its members with his bare hands. The dojo was strewn with crushed organs and bodies mangled beyond recognition, a hellish scene with viscera, brains, and limbs scattered along the walls and ceiling. The maid who witnessed the massacre lost her mind, and thirty years later, the records were destroyed because it was so unbelievable, it was thought to be fabricated.
Muzan impales Hakuji's head.
Bloodied and dazed, Hakuji walked mindlessly until he came to a footbridge. The man on it remarks about hearing of the dojo's massacre and was curious as he didn't recall sending a demon to the town, disappointed to know it was a human who committed the murders. Hakuji threatens to kill the stranger when he suddenly lunges and impales his head with his hand. Planning to create a group of twelve powerful demons, he asks Hakuji if he could withstand the blood he will received. Broken by his loss, he replies that he did not care anymore.
As a demon, now going by the name Akaza, Hakuji has lost his memories but was still drawn to seeking greater strength, even when he had nothing he wanted to protect. He didn't want to live in a world without his family, and for over the next century, he would go on to commit countless acts of senseless violence, denouncing his entire life as "a horribly sad, laughable, and ridiculous story."
As Akaza laments being unable to go to heaven like his father, Keizo and Koyuki, he becomes furious that Tanjiro and Giyu have reminded him of his painful past. He curses humans as weak, soft, and brittle; they die easily, they're brittle, and disappear into nothing. Tanjiro awakens from his ordeal, shocked at how he fainted. Akaza begins to regenerate his head and performs Destructive Death: Annihilation Type. As Tanjiro yells at him to stop, the demon is shocked that he has managed to survive his kick. Declaring that he will behead the demon again, Tanjiro's sword ignites with the fires of the Hinokami Kagura.
However, his sword slips out of his grasp, forcing Tanjiro to punch Akaza's face instead, reminding him of when he first met Keizo. Akaza recalls why he hates weak people; they don't fight face to face, they poison wells, and they're impatient, and he killed these weak people with his fists. He then realizes that throughout his demon life, he turned Keizo's fighting style into a weapon and disrespected his father's last words, finally realizing who he must truly kill. As Tanjiro panics about his lost sword and sees Akaza about to use the same technique that killed Kyojuro, he notices Giyu in the attack's range. Despite Giyu telling him to not worry about him, Tanjiro grabs him and throws both themselves out of the technique's path.
Akaza destroys his own body with Annihilation Type.
He then sees Akaza with a slight smile on his face, engulfed by numerous shockwaves. The attack leaves the surrounding area devastated and Akaza's body a broken, bloody mess. Wondering why he would attack himself, Tanjiro smells a scent of gratitude from the corpse, before asking why he had smiled before hitting himself. The body begins to regenerate, but Akaza stops the process, accepting that the fight is over and he had lost. He commends Tanjiro for his magnificent technique, anticipating and slashing before he could react. The broken body begins to walk away, while Akaza's spirit decides he would go to Hell with his dignity. When he stops, to Tanjiro's confusion, his spirit meets with his father's.
Asking if he was alright, his father reassures, calling him Hakuji and thanking him. As he apologizes for being unable to fix himself, his head is held by Keizo, who tells him that they would never abandon him no matter what, despite Akaza not being able to go to heaven with them. As he calls out for his master, Muzan appears, grabbing his head and reminding him to get stronger, to continue fighting. With that, his body regenerates even quicker, and Akaza voices his will to keep his promise and get stronger, declaring once again he will kill everyone. Suddenly, Koyuki touches his face, thanking Hakuji and saying that he has done enough. Though Muzan appears again, calling him Akaza once more, he overcomes Muzan's control and grabs Koyuki's spirit on the verge of tears, once again the human Hakuji.
The death of Upper Rank Three.
He tearfully apologizes for being unable to protect her, for not being there when she needed him, and for not being able to keep his promise. Seeing him crying for forgiveness, Koyuki is glad that Hakuji had remembered them all despite his long demon life and returned as a human again. With the words, "Welcome back, my husband", Akaza stops his regeneration. Tanjiro watches as the body of Upper Three finally fades into ash.
As Hakuji calls out to his father, Keizo and Koyuki that he is back home, his spirit becomes engulfed in the fires of hell, joined by Koyuki. Tanjiro watches as Akaza's body finally fades into nothing, declaring the battle over. Realizing he must reach Tamayo to help her, his body can no longer handle the fatigue and he falls on his face unconscious. Surprised that Tanjiro had suddenly fainted, Giyu tries to call out to him but faints from exhaustion as well, resting his body on his sword. A Kasugai Crow calls out the aftermath of the battle, Tanjiro and Giyu have manage to defeat Upper Three but are now unconscious.
Kokushibo no longer feels Akaza's presence and realizes he has been defeated.
Kokushibo no longer feels Akaza's presence and realizes he has been defeated. Upper One reminisces on his previous vow to kill him, remembering the threat at his life earlier. As he voices that Akaza had opened the path to reach further heights and abandoned it, he grabs his sword and furiously slashes the pillars of his room, cursing him as "exceedingly weak".
Kanao introduces herself to Doma.
Doma sesnses Akaza's demise and comments he felt like a different being that usual. As he brushes aside his comment, he asks for Kanao's name. She introduces herself as Kanao Tsuyuri, adding that she is the little sister of Kanae and Shinobu Kocho. Doma is confused, judging that she doesn't appear blood-related to the two but nonetheless comments that young girls are delicious anyway. While on the subject of eating women, Doma mentions his subordinate's conscious decision to not eat them, owing that fact to his demise.
Despite mentioning that women have more nutritional content to demons that men, Akaza refused and was even given special permission by Muzan to do so, since Akaza was only deployed by Muzan on special missions. As he mourns for the death of his "best friend", Kanao tells him to stop the lies. She figures out Doma does not feel the least bit saddened as the colour on his face stayed the same. When Doma responds back it is due to him being a demon, Kanao retorts by mentioning that demons and humans both circulate blood and the colour of their faces can change.
Kanao states that Kanae felt sorry for Doma due to his apathy.
She mentions that Kanae had felt sorry for him as he feels nothing. She talks about how all people are born with the ability to feel happiness, as well as sadness and anger. Doma cannot understand these feelings, but knowing he was intelligent, Kanao instead tears into how he covers up his lack of feelings with a facade of lies, pretending to experience emotion to hide the fact his heart feels nothing. He feels no happiness, no bitterness, no pain, calling him an empty shell and saying his facade is so comical, it's stupid. Finally she mockingly asks, "Why were you even born?".
Doma's facade drops after Kanao insults him.
Doma comments that throughout his life, he has talked with numerous young women but never a "bully" like Kanao and asks how could she say something so cruel. Kanao retaliates by saying her outright hatred of him, her desire to cut off his head. She changes her opinion of him, "You're not very smart, are you", calling him a disgrace, and smiling as she mentions it was better to kill him as his life is utterly pointless and meaningless.
Doma instantly appears behind her, trying to slice her neck. Kanao reacts in time however and crouches down to slash through his abdomen. When he tries to send out his ice lotuses to hit her, she dodges the incoming attack to safety. As Doma heals, he comments that her reaction speed had accelerated, she is adjusting to his own movement. She has not inhaled any of his ice even though it is extremely difficult to attack in her manner without a breathing technique. Doma suddenly realizes that Kanao might actually be more powerful than Shinobu.
Kanao's anger at Doma.
Kanao feels the goosebumps throughout her body aren't stopping. She evens know to put strength into her fingertips to hold her sword, or risk it shaking. She mentions the demons she had faced in the past pale in comparison to Doma, but she is able to face him due to the immense anger she feels, anger so powerful it feels like her body is burning. She feels she must rampage at him or her body would rip itself apart, the dizziness in her head and her anger turning into hatred. She calls that she hates Doma and asks how he could kill her family.
Doma clashed techniques with Kanao.
Kanao vanishes and instantly appears before him, using the Flower Breathing, Fifth Form: Peonies of Futility to rapidly slash him. Doma comments the consecutive attacks are pretty and retaliates with his Blood Demon Art: Barren Hanging Garden. Kanao attacks back with the Flower Breathing, Second Form: Honorable Shadow Plum to destroy the created ice. Doma notices the key to withstanding his attacks are her eyes. She notices his movements and predicts his next actions in anticipation. Complimenting her as smart and the above-average swordsman, the demon decides the best course of action is to gouge them out. Doma slashes at her face but Kanao bends back, sustaining a small cut on the side of her temple. Using the Flower Breathing, Sixth Form: Whirling Peach, she attacks back at the Upper Rank, who compliments her body and flexibility as well-trained and akin to a spring.
Doma deploys his fearsome Freezing Clouds, forcing Kanao to close her eyes or risk freezing them. While on the defensive, she is attacked again by Doma using Blood Demon Art: Lotus Vines, the ice vines converging on her and forcing Kanao to slice the incoming attack to defend against them. When she is finished cutting them apart, Doma quickly attacks again with his Blood Demon Art: Cold White Princesses, two ice figures of women that spray the icy fog in her direction. Kanao again backs away to avoid the fog but must dodge again when Doma unleashes his Blood Demon Art: Wintry Icicles form from above and nearly impale her.
Doma taunts her for getting away from him, mentioning she needs to get up close to kill him.
Doma taunts her for getting away from him, mentioning that in order to kill him, she needs to get up close. He disappears for a moment and reappears, clutching her Nichirin Sword, despite Kanao aware and anticipating his next moves. Doma mocks her for not holding onto the sword and sticks it near him. He tells the demon slayer to "come and get it", and deploys his Blood Demon Art: Scattering Lotuses in her direction. Kanao forces herself to look through the incoming hail of ice to find the area of minimum damage but sustains multiple cuts to her face.
Suddenly, Inosuke smashes through the roof, announcing, "Out of the sky, Lord-Inosuke's comin' in!", and using Beast Breathing, Fifth Fang: Crazy Cutting, he destroys the incoming wave of ice shards, saving Kanao. He thanks the Kasugai Crow for leading him to the right room.
Inosuke comes to a realization and asks an upset Kanao if Shinobu is dead.
Inosuke looks at Doma's eyes and enthusiastically realizes he is Upper Rank Two. He declares he will defeat him and finally become a Hashira. A confused Doma mentions he isn't hiding his identity as Upper Rank Two. Inosuke sees the injured Kanao and warns her that Shinobu will get angry at seeing her condition. But when Kanao doesn't respond and she becomes upset, Inosuke is stunned into silence. Doma overhears him and mentions that Shinobu will live forever inside him, as "That's how everyone I eat gets saved".
Inosuke is shocked, remembering a memory he had where Shinobu pinky-promised him to not remove the bandage of his injured hand. Inosuke angrily declares, "I'll gnaw you to shreds, trash", and charges towards Doma, despite Kanao warning him not to inhale the cold air he creates. Using his Beast Breathing, Fourth Fang: Slice 'n' Dice, Inosuke slashes at Doma, the demon commenting on his "messed up technique" as well as noticing his chipped blades and unorthodox fighting style. When Doma attempts to slash at Inosuke's neck, he flips back and deflects the fan with his feet, earning a compliment from the Upper Rank for his flexibility and intrigued by his mask. Inosuke lands next to Kanao and presents her with her blade, stolen from an unaware Doma, to her shock. Doma comments that the Demon Slayer is fast and grows more ice to attack, only for Inosuke to deflect them back and kick him in the stomach, knocking him away.
Inosuke manages to slash Doma across both eyes.
As he compliments him again, Inosuke charges forward and readies a slash. Doma comments that the attack is far from the sword's range, so when the boar-headed fighter swings, he become shocked that the attack had reached him and slashes across his eyes. Inosuke had used Beast Breathing, Ninth Fang: Extending Bendy Slash, dislocating the joints of his arm to extend his range. He relocates the bones of his arm but is angered that the new attack's inaccuracy made him missed Doma's head, to Kanao's shock.
Doma is amused at his unusual opponent and comments that throughout his own long life, he had never met a fighter like him. Inosuke takes the compliment and says it's because "the other riff-raff losers are nothing compared to me". But while Inosuke is talking, his mask instantly disappears from his face, surprising him and shocking Kanao. Doma had stolen it without either Demon Slayer noticing and comments the boar skin is quite old. As Inosuke angrily demands his mask back, Doma suddenly responds that he knows and has seen Inosuke's face before.
Doma asks if he and Inosuke had met in the past
Doma asks if he and Inosuke had met in the past, causing Inosuke angrily retorts his statement and demand his hands off his mask. However, Doma is sure they have and that he knows him from somewhere. Inosuke responds again that he has not met Doma before. Doma mentions the one he encountered before was Shinobu, leading Inosuke to comment that he felt as if he had met her before, hoping to ask her the next time they met. When Kanao attempts to lead Inosuke away, saying Doma is spouting random nonsense, Doma becomes surprised and offended, stating his only saving grace is his seriousness and long and clear memory, even during his human years. With that, Doma pierces his own skull with his finger, to Kanao and Inosuke's shock and disgust. He fiddles with his brain until he reaches a particular memory and retells it to the two.
Doma remember the first time he meets Kotoha.
Fifteen years ago, there was a young woman with a baby, roughly 17-18 years of age. She was abused by her husband and mother-in-law daily and encountered Doma's Eternal Paradise Faith. She had no siblings or parents and had no place else to go to. When Doma first met her, her face was severely swollen from the beatings, commenting it was "pretty rough" even to him, and that the woman was even partially blinded. But when he touched the woman's face, her face went back to normal. She was so beautiful, it left a lasting impression on even the apathetic Doma. He mentions she had the same face as Inosuke and concludes she must be his mother.
Doma slashes Inosuke's chest twice creating an X-like mark.
Inosuke says that he has no mother and was raised by boars, to Doma's amusement; "You're a human, so a human must have given birth to you". Inosuke charges forward and readies his Beast Breathing: Sixth Fang, to Kanao's concern, only for Doma to state this encounter is a miracle and simultaneously slash at Inosuke's chest twice creating an X-like mark. He quickly summons more ice and knocks both Demon Slayers into the cult room's pond. As Kanao urges Inosuke to calm down, Doma continues his story. He had no intention of eating the woman, as "having someone beautiful next to you feels pretty good, you know?" Though he considered her unintelligent, she was talented at singing. The woman continually sang a pinky-promise lullaby to her baby, Doma mentioning that she sang with different lyrics each time and adding the song soon became a village song.
Inosuke realizes that pinky promise memory was not because of Shinobu. Doma purely planned on letting her live her life but learned that though she wasn't particularly smart, the woman, named Kotoha, was sharp. She soon learned Doma devoured the followers of the cult. Confronting him for his lies and fleeing the temple, Kotoha apologized to Inosuke, cursing herself for continually making mistakes, going the wrong way and repeatedly saying she was sorry.
Doma calls Kotoha's existence pointless infront of Inosuke and Kanao.
She became lost in the forest and unable to find the human village. Cornered at a cliff's edge, she apologizes once more to Inosuke before dropping him off the cliff into the water. Doma kills her shortly after. He believed the baby would died dropped from the cliff and cried at how sad the situation has become. Inosuke suddenly figures out she was killed, his mother was killed. Doma ate her to the very bone and noted if she went to her husband, he would continue beating her, and if she was alone by herself on the road, she would end up dead as well. Doma mocks Kotoha's life for being so unfortunate, "Was there ever a happy moment in her life?", and calls her existence pointless, causing Kanao to furiously tell him to silence himself. As Inosuke grabs his fallen sword from the water, he remembers his mother's love for him.
Doma comments: "It truly is a miracle, meeting you here". Now filled with rage, Inosuke declares, "The demon who killed his mother and my friends is right before my eyes". He stands up and thanks Doma for letting him remember everything, but voices he won't cut off his head now. He takes a stances and readies to fight Upper Rank Two, declaring that "I'll show you what true hell is like".
Doma tells Inosuke that though he was raised by boars and knows his way with words, he is mistaken. The demon claims heaven and hell don't exist, figments of human fantasies. To him, the humans who live righteously suffer tragedies, while the evil live free to do whatever they want, adding that since divine punishment doesn't exist, mentally weak people therefore believe the evil go to hell upon death. He tells them that they keep this belief deep in their minds and calls humans pitiful. Inosuke decides that instead, he'll create hell for Doma.
Inosuke yells at Doma to get back down so they can continue fighting.
As he charges, telling Doma to stop talking about his mother's life as unfortunate, Doma retaliates with Blood Demon Art: Freezing Clouds. Inosuke uses Beast Breathing, Tenth Fang: Whirling Fangs, rotating his blades to disperse the icy cloud. Kanao attempts to attack Doma from behind but he anticipates it, swiping his fans at her neck. Though she parries the fan, his swipe still knocks her into the water. Doma clings to the roof, causing Inosuke to yell for him to come down and face him. Doma tells them that as Akaza is defeated, he no longer has the time, instead creating ice dolls using Crystalline Divine Child to fight the Demon Slayers.
Doma tells Kanao and Inosuke that the ice dolls are as powerful as him.
As they land, Inosuke and Kanao are confused, but are soon shocked when the dolls use Scattering Lotuses to fight them. Doma tells them the ice dolls are as powerful as him, leaving them to it as he walks away, making Inosuke furious. Kanao tells him to focus on the battle, as a doll uses Frozen Lotus to slash at Inosuke, forcing him back. Doma notices Inosuke isn't breathing in his fog, confusing him. As the dolls use Cold White Princesses and envelopes the room with more fog, Inosuke becomes incensed that everything around him is freezing. Doma is intrigued by him as a fighter he had never face. He decide to force the Demon Slayers to use all their techniques, as information would be useful in future to kill them.
Doma's face began to melting from Shinobu's poison.
As Kanao is forced to hold back another Lotus Vines onslaught, she hopes she and Inosuke can keep Doma inside the room with them for a little longer. However, Doma immediately decide to create a fifth doll to kill the combatants quicker, or face getting scolded. With that, he forges one in his fans and releases it, the doll immediately deploying Wintry Icicles to knock Kanao back further. Soon, Inosuke's arms get slashed by the icy vines, worrying Kanao and telling him to hold out for longer. She herself becomes overwhelmed by the continual slashes of the ice lotuses. Doma overhears her and is confused at how they will survive for any longer. Knowing his dolls will record everything during the battle, he decides to leave.
As Doma opens the door of the cult room, his face begins to melt, confusing him, to Kanao's hope. He collapses to the floor and suddenly thinks back to Shinobu.
In the past, Shinobu and Kanao converse about if they ever encountered Upper Rank Two. Shinobu believes if she encountered him, and Kanao happened to fight alongside her, she would need to be eaten first, shocking her younger sister. Kanao pleads that she and her would fight the demon together, only for Shinobu to respond back by telling her to abandon those thoughts. Though she knows an Upper Rank is as strong as three Hashiras at minimum, according to their late sister Kanae, Upper Two is gluttonous, with an obsession for eating women.
Doma collapsed further from the effect of Shinobu's poison
Shinobu knows if the demon faces a Hashira with great abilities, a body in excellent condition and is a woman, he would definitely eat her, worrying Kanao further. She tells Kanao that her body is currently concentrated with wisteria poison. As Kanao tells her she is also willing to go through the same thing, Shinobu tells her it is impossible to reach her level; she had been absorbing the poison for over a year. Shinobu confesses she was the first to do such a feat, herself unsure of the potential side effects in the future and unsure if her plan would work on an Upper Rank or even Muzan. She states her sword has 50 millilitres of poison, but whatever demon consume her would also consume 37 kilograms worth of poison in her body weight.
Kanao explains to Inosuke that Shinobu's poison is affecting Doma.
Doma collapses further from the effects of Shinobu's poison, his arm falling off, his bones melting and his regeneration failing. He realizes he never felt the poison circulate through him until now. His ice dolls soon fracture and collapse as well, to Inosuke's confusion. Kanao realises Shinobu's poison is working and they now have Doma cornered.
Shinobu tells Kanao she doesn't know even if a life's worth of expertise on poison would work on an Upper Rank Demon. Kagaya Ubuyashiki himself had deemed it impossible but advised her to consult with a demon for further knowledge. Shinobu tells her sister, if the poison did start working, she must never let her guard down still, adding the only sure way to kill Upper Two is severed his neck. She knows she will definitely weaken him and tells Kanao to deal the finishing blow.
Kanao resolves to not let Shinobu's sacrifice be in vain.
Kanao becomes assured she will kill Upper Two and resolves to not let Shinobu's sacrifice be in vain. As she and Inosuke converged on Doma, he summons his final technique: Blood Demon Art: Rime - Water Lily Bodhisattva, forming a massive ice bodhisattva that towers over them. With the two stunned at this new threat, the giant ice figure slams down onto the cult room pond, sending Inosuke and Kanao flying back. Kanao realises if they get forced away from the fog, Doma will have the time to recover, and if they entered the fog and inhaled it, they would no longer be able to fight. However, she notices though Doma's bodhisattva is powerful, it is shoddy; Doma has lost all his precision and creating it was a last ditch effort. She decides to use her own last technique and remembers her last moments with Shinobu.
Kanao remembers Shinobu's warning about the backlash of Final Form: Equinoctial Vermilion Eye.
Shinobu warns her that using the technique might blind her; eyeballs are delicate, with very thin blood vessels and nerves, telling her not to endanger and burden herself by releasing such power. Kanao rejects her warning, asking why should she worry about her vision when Shinobu gave her own life. She calls her sister a sweet and honorable person, declaring she wanted to protect her with her life, and she wanted her, Aoi, Sumi, Kiyo and Naho and herself to all go home together.
Kanao swings her blade at Doma's decaying head.
Kanao activates Flower Breathing: Final Form - Equinoctial Vermillion Eye, causing her eyes to flush full of blood and her perception heightened even further than ever. The giant bodhisattva becomes slow in her eyes; she can see its hand about to slam down. She realises her scleras are turning red and quickly slices up the ice figure's hand to reach Doma. As she swings her katana at Doma's decaying head, the bodhisattva turns back and blasts Kanao with the icy fog, freezing her back and arms. Her sword reaches his neck but she can no longer swing further with her arms stuck frozen. Inosuke sees this and uses a new technique, Sudden Throwing Strike, hurling his blades at Doma.
His swords hit Kanao's, driving the blade through Doma's neck and decapitating him.
Doma is in disbelief at losing to Shinobu, and Kanao, and Inosuke.
Doma is in disbelief at having his head sliced off. He expresses self pity for losing to a sword-wielder who didn't have enough strength to slice off necks, even though he had put much effort into what he believed was for other people's sakes. However, he doesn't give up right away and thinks to himself that he still has a chance and might not die, like Muzan. He also knows Akaza was also to replicate his feat.
However, as his head falls to the floor and bounces, his body begins to disintegrate and he realizes he is going to die. He thinks to himself how he doesn't feel anything, recalling back to a moment in his childhood: his mother had stabbed his father to death after the latter had flirted with numerous female followers, later committing suicide via poison shortly after.
Despite this tragedy, his only thoughts were about ventilating the room; he couldn't comprehend the deaths because of his apathy and was only bothered by the smell of their blood. Doma remembers how he was turned into a demon at the age of 20 and lived over a century, but in the end, human emotions had been alien to him.
In purgatory, Shinobu holds Doma's head in her hand, the former expressing relief at Doma's death. With a smile, she states that she can now be at rest. Doma greets her, asking whether her name was Shinobu or Kanae. Shinobu smiles and tells him that he doesn't have to remember their names, asking him not to address them because it was creepy. Doma compliments Shinobu about the intensity of the poison she used on him, claiming he didn't notice the poison until it had fully circulated his body.
Shinobu meets Doma in the afterlife.
Shinobu explains that Tamayo had assisted in making that poison, expressing her slight frustration that if she could, she would have wanted to kill Doma with a poison she had made herself. Additionally, despite Muzan still being alive, she also expresses faith that one of her peers will kill him as well. Suddenly, Doma claims that his missing heart feels like it is beating, asking Shinobu whether this was love and expressing his surprise that emotions did indeed exist. He then goes on to think that heaven and hell may exist as well, asking Shinobu whether she wanted to go to hell with him. To this, the latter tells him to go to hell already.
Meanwhile, Inosuke stomps on the place where Doma's disintegrated head once was, yelling insults. Growing dizzy, he falls to the ground. He then recalls a conversation he had with Tanjiro and Zenitsu. Inosuke had been yelling that he didn't have a mother. Tanjiro tells him that everyone has to have a mother, to which Inosuke responds that he was abandoned which meant that his mother did not want him. Zenitsu replies that if Inosuke had truly been abandoned, his mother wouldn't have bothered to name him.
Kanao searches for Shinobu's hairpin.
Inosuke retorts back that he doesn't have memories of his mother which was the same as not having one at all. Tanjiro gently reminds him to not speak of his mother that way, stating that his mother must have loved him a lot.Inosuke begins to cry as he remembers his mother. Kanao, on the other hand, looks for Shinobu's hair clip, noting her inability to see clearly from her right eye. She realizes her own hairclip, formerly Kanae's, is now broken, to her sadness. Kanao apologizes to her older sister and recalls the time when Kanae had died; she had been unable to cry at that time, bothering her greatly.
Kanao had been making excuses inside her heart. Being born into an abusive household where crying would result in a punishment, she had been used to holding back her emotions; however, no one at that time blamed her. Kanao finds Shinobu's butterfly hairclip and clutches it to her chest, when she feels the apparitions of Shinobu and Kanae softly patting her head and telling her she did well.
Shinobu reunited with Kanae in the afterlife.
Kanao looks up only to find they weren't there. Shinobu reunites with her sister and her parents in the afterlife. In the pond, holding both her adoptive sisters' hairpins, Kanao begins to cry.
After losing consciousness following his battle, Tanjiro has his rest interrupted by the scent of something burning. He awakens to find Giyu beside him, patched up and stoking a small fire with his katana. As Tanjiro asks if his katana is chipped, Giyu explains that he had tried to stop the bleeding of his wounds, but when that failed he resorted to cauterizing his wounds instead, which unsettles Tanjiro. He also notes that if the cut on his own arm also doesn't stop bleeding, he can cauterize for him as well, though Tanjiro politely refuses the offer. Giyu asks if the bone in his arm is alright, to which Tanjiro answers that it is only a bruise.
Mitsuri and Obanai encounter Nakime.
The Hashira solemnly remarks that their battle was only the beginning, with the final target being Muzan, and they may have to battle Upper Two or One next. The two are interrupted by a Kasugai crow announcing that Shinobu, Kanao, and Inosuke have jointly defeated Upper Two, much to their surprise; Tanjiro asks the crow if the two are alright, who answers they mostly are. He is amazed by their victorious and the realization they are closing in on Muzan. Elsewhere, Mitsuri locates Nakime and discovers her rank of Upper Four. Obanai is surprised by this, knowing that Muichiro and the others had already defeated Upper Four and correctly believing the new demon is a replacement.
Knowing Shinobu was younger than her and still risked her life to do her best, Mitsuri vows to do the same, only to be caught by Nakime and thrown aside by a slamming door. Obanai reacts and catches the Love Hashira, who is embarrassed to have acted so hastily. Obanai explains that as they don't know Nakime's ability, they must analyze her first, but the two nearly fall again when Nakime summons a door beneath them. They catch the door frame in time to save themselves, but Mitsuri is cut off by consecutive opening doors while Obanai faces multiple columns attempting to crush him. Mitsuri is caughtby a column and nearly crushed when she slices it apart in the nick of time.
Confident she has recognized her opponent's patterns, Mitsuri tries again to attack Nakime, but the Biwa Demon summons a new door to take Mitsuri away from her, sending the disappointed Hashira falling again. Obanai closes in on Nakime and uses Serpent Breathing, Second Form: Venom Fangs of the Narrow Head, but the demon reacts by pushing herself away atop another column. He remarks that while not deadly, her Blood Demon Art is instead irritating and could prove a long and troublesome fight. Mitsuri on the other hand has narrowly saved herself by grabbing onto a wooden ledge.
The Mist Hashira comes face to face with Upper Rank One.
Together, Gyomei and Muichiro run through the castle in search of Muzan. But just as Gyomei tells him to not let his guard down, Muichiro is pushed away by a sliding column to the side. The Mist Hashira orders the Stone Hashira to pay him no heed as the column slams through a wooden wall, sending Muichiro into a vast hall of pillars and walls. Inside, Kokushibo spots the visitor in his room and remarks that he appears familiar, while Muichiro can barely comprehend he is now facing Upper Rank One.
Muichiro becomes afraid to fight Kokushibo.
Observing Muichiro through the Transparent World, Kokushibo recognizes something within him. In turn, Muichiro notes that Upper One doesn't appear like the other Upper Ranks, describing him as profoundly majestic. He also notes the katana at his side; despite its warped looks, he questions if the demon was once a Demon Slayer as well as a Breathing Style user. Muichiro begins to tremble uncontrollably as Upper One's intimidating aura overwhelms his senses; it is as if his body is refusing to fight, something he never felt in the past. Kokushibo asks his opponent for his name, and upon hearing the Mist Hashira answer him as Muichiro Tokito, the demon claims that the name Tsugikuni had inevitably died out over the centuries.
Confused by his statement, Muichiro listens as Kokushibo explains his human name was Michikatsu Tsugikuni, and that Muichiro is a member of the family left behind by his son, making him Kokushibo's descendant. Muichiro is stunned by the revelation, as well as the fact that Kokushibo is likely a user of the original Breathing Style. However, he puts his mind at ease and stops shaking, facing Upper One with a determined expression. To this, Kokushibo shows admiration to the Mist Hashira's mental fortitude.
Kokushibo dodges Muichiro's attack, identifying him as a Mist Breathing user.
Muichiro suddenly lunges for an attack using Mist Breathing, Second Form: Eight-Layered Mist, but despite the rapid attack, Kokushibo nonchalantly appears behind him, commending him for his usage of Mist Breathing. Muichiro attacks him again, this time with Fifth Form: Sea of Clouds and Haze, but the demon is easily able to evade the form once again. He addresses Muichiro and notes that despite being only fourteen years of age, his technique is highly refined and he possesses the courage to calm himself to attack him. Kokushibo credits this to his blood; despite it thinning out over generations, his cells have remained and proliferated in him.
Hearing this, Muichiro rejects the notion of his ancestry being his strength; he remarks that after hundreds of years, none of his blood is still in him, as the mark appears on his face. As Kokushibo becomes surprised to see it, Muichiro uses Mist Breathing, Seventh Form: Obscuring Clouds and seemingly cloaks himself in mist. Upper One grows impressed, noting that previous Mist Breathing users had never used such a form; Muichiro suddenly aims his blade at his neck, but the demon once more is able to dodge the attack. He commends his seventh form for its unique tempo and the difficulty to read the disturbances in his movement.
Kokushibo attacks Muichiro and severs his hand.
Amazed at the realization Muichiro had likely created the form, Kokushibo remarks that it would be rude of him not to unsheathe his blade. He draws his katana and uses Moon Breathing, First Form: Dark Moon, Evening Palace, severing Muichiro's left hand. The Mist Hashira is stunned by his use of Moon Breathing, realizing that a demon able to use a Breathing Style has speed completely unseen before. Ripping off his left sleeve, Muichiro quickly ties the fabric around his arm to stop the bleeding; Kokushibo commends his spirit to stop the bleeding and immediately go for another attack against him.
The Hashira attempts to use Mist Breathing, Fourth Form: Shifting Flow Slash but Kokushibo catches the katana mid-attack and stabs Muichiro against a pillar with it. The demon asks Muichiro for a chance to transform him into a demon and be of use to Muzan.
Kokushibo stands before Muichiro as he hangs, pinned by his own katana against a pillar. He claims his heart is moved to see a descendant of his, something he never imagined, and reassures the Mist Hashira that his arm will regrow when he becomes a demon. The Upper Rank also believes he is now the only remaining Upper Rank able to fight, and that Muzan will welcome him as well. He proceeds to gently patch Muichiro's arm stump, believing humans to be fragile. However, he nonetheless claims that if he bleeds out and dies, or Muzan does not accept him as a demon, then his death will have always been his ultimate fate as a human.
Kokushibo severs both of Genya's arms.
Having entered the room, Genya sneaks behind a wall as Kokushibo ties a tourniquet for Muichiro's wound, but as he fires his shotgun, the Upper Rank instantly appears behind the Demon Slayer and asks if he agrees with his sentiment. Genya's left arm suddenly falls off as he remains too paralyzed with fear to react. Muichiro screams for Genya, but as the Demon Slayer attempts to draw his wakizashi, his right arm flies from his body; Kokushibo had slashed him so quickly, it appeared as if he never moved his hand. Upper One notices that the Demon Slayer has been eating demons, just as he slashes Genya in the torso; Muichiro frantically attempts to free himself but cannot pull out the katana. Seeing he is still alive despite his grievous wounds, he reminisces on a similar Demon Slayer who lived 300 years ago and how he too ate demons but was killed when Kokushibo beheaded him.
Sanemi arrives in the nick of time.
Genya desperately attempts to crawl towards his severed arm as Kokushibo declares he has no reason to allow an "imitation demon" such as him to live. But as his katana nears Genya's neck, Sanemi suddenly appears, using Wind Breathing, Fourth Form: Rising Dust Storm to push the demon away from Genya. Kokushibo sees he now faces the Wind Hashira as he responds to his assertion: "That's right! And that wind... is gonna wrench your head off!" Genya is shocked to find his older brother before him, who responds by calling him a pathetic brother. He then reveals the reasons he went so far as to kill their own mother was to protect him.
This causes Genya to recall a past conversation he had with Tanjiro, who notes that despite Sanemi loathing the fact he is a Demon Slayer, he never detected any hatred in him. He doesn't need to be afraid of Sanemi and should be free to speak his mind, because he had always loved him. Sanemi shares his hope that Genya would have a home, a family, and grow old; to make up for the things they could never do with their mother and younger siblings, Genya was supposed to get married and have children. "And I would've never let a demon near you." As Genya apologizes to his brother upon hearing his revelation, Kokushibo observes them and remarks about the nostalgic feeling to see brothers as Demon Slayers together.
Sanemi attacks Kokushibo with First Form: Dust Whirlwind Cutter.
Enraged by the Upper Rank's maiming of Genya, Sanemi lunges towards Kokushibo head-on. Upper Rank One slashes at him, but Sanemi ducks down and slides between the demon's legs, attempting to catch his foot. Kokushibo evades the slash by leaping upwards, but Sanemi responds with Wind Breathing, First Form: Dust Whirlwind Cutter; he charges at the Upper Rank as he lands and forces Kokushibo into a clash of blades to stop him from advancing. Muichiro sees the demon has finally drawn his weapon as Sanemi remarks about the katana's repulsive appearance; the blade is covered in numerous twitching eyes.
Kokushibo uses Fifth Form: Moon Spirit Calamitous Eddy.
As the Wind Hashira and Upper Rank One clash blades, the demon unleashes Moon Breathing, Fifth Form: Moon Spirit Calamitous Eddy, creating a rotating ring of slashes and moon-like blades that force his opponent to back away. Noting that Kokushibo is able to repeat the slashes with a swing of his blade, Sanemi goes for a counterattack and meets the demon with Wind Breathing, Third Form: Clear Storm Wind Tree. Kokushibo lauds the Wind Hashira's physicality and technique as being at their peak, while Sanemi silently remarks that the demon's display of skill is giving him goosebumps.
He sees that each of his slashes is enveloped in chaotic crescent blades that change in size and form, making them unpredictable, and he claims to not be surprised that Muichiro was defeated. Unable to ward off any of the attacks completely, he notes that without his own experience, he would have never been able to defend himself. Furthermore, Sanemi is amazed by Kokushibo's use of a Breathing Style; the combination of his speed with the regeneration and physical prowess of being a demon making him an opponent whose power will only climb.
Sanemi and Kokushibo trade blows.
He excitedly claims Kokushibo is a demon worth killing and uses Wind Breathing, Second Form: Claws - Purifying Wind to slash at his demonic katana. Kokushibo swipes away the wind gusts but is met by the Hashira leaping down to slash at his neck. He blocks Sanemi's katana but senses something from underneath, narrowly moving his neck away from the Hashira attempting to use Genya's fallen wakizashi with his foot. The two continue to trade blows as the Hashira matches the Upper Rank's every move with an attack of his own; Kokushibo notices Sanemi is keeping up with him and remarks about its nostalgic feeling.
Kokushibo injures Sanemi with Sixth Form: Perpetual Night, Lonely Moon - Incessant.
As Muichiro and Genya call out to him, Sanemi begins to grow frustrated at his lack of breathing room, noting that he almost died because he narrowly misses the tip of his swing. Kokushibo reminisces on a time during the Sengoku period when he and the Wind Hashira of then would spar together to improve their skills. Using Moon Breathing, Sixth Form: Perpetual Night, Lonely Moon - Incessant, Kokushibo unleashes a frontal wave of slashes and blades, cutting Sanemi across his chest and limbs and additionally slash apart the surrounding pillars. Genya bemoans being unable to see the battle with the pillars and lattice walls obstructing his view.
As Sanemi stand and begins to bleed heavily from his cuts, Kokushibo commends his opponent for holding out until now. But as he warns him that moving will cause his organs to spill, his pulse begins to quicken, much to his confusion. Sanemi laughs to himself as he explains that Marechi to demons is like silver vine to cats. He suddenly attacks Kokushibo again, who stumbles back and staggers from Sanemi's slash as the Wind Hashira becomes excited to see that his blood works on even Upper Rank demons.
Soon after he began hunting demons, Sanemi noticed that his blood was special, as when his mother attacked him, her movements slowed when he began to bleed; he also remarks that after killing her, it was as if the colors of the world had faded. Because he did not know about the Demon Slayer Corps or Nichirin Swords, when he hunted demons, he did so by arming himself with numerous blades, fighting to restrain them before leaving them to burn in the sunlight. He acknowledges that his past efforts were suicidal and what saved him was his blood being able to intoxicate demons.
Sanemi mourning Masachika's death.
One day, he met a Demon Slayer who was also pursuing demons; his name was Masachika Kumeno and it was he who then introduced him to a trainer. Sanemi bitterly remarks about the unfairness of the world as good people would die one after another; during a battle they fought together against Lower Rank One, Masachika was killed and Sanemi went on to be the Wind Hashira.
As Sanemi attacks Kokushibo with Wind Breathing, Sixth Form: Black Wind Mountain Mist, the demon expresses surprise to see him continuing to fight. Acknowledging that previous Hashira he fought would never reach the stage he is at now, he notices Sanemi has stopped the bleeding of his wounds and wonders if he had coagulated his blood using Total Concentration Breathing or if he is flexing his muscles to stop his organs from spilling. Intrigued to see something he had never seen a human do before, Kokushibo then begins to enjoy the slight intoxication of Sanemi's Marechi, claiming it feels pleasant. He dodges a slash to the side and stomps down on Sanemi's katana. Unable to move, Sanemi watches as Kokushibo brings his blade down onto his neck.
The Hashira express their disapproval towards Sanemi's behaviour to Kagaya.
During his first Hashira meeting, Sanemi became angered to see Kagaya Ubuyashiki smile, claiming he did so as others suffered and believing him to be someone who refused to dirty his hands, hiding behind safety as he gave out orders with an unconcerned expression. His first words to the Oyakata, "Well, aren't you something? Hey! Master Ubuyashiki", drew the ire of Gyomei Himejima and Tengen Uzui, while Kanae Kocho sat by concerned. As Gyomei claims that the Wind Hashira does not appear to know how to speak properly, angrily cracking his rosary, Kagaya assuages the Stone Hashira and allows Sanemi to speak his mind. When Kanae spoke, Kagaya reassured the Flower Hashira and remained composed.
Sanemi angrily claims he is sickened by the Oyakata shamelessly using the Corps members as pawns, to be used and thrown away. He accuses Kagaya of not knowing any martial arts as the head of the Demon Slayer Corps, but to Sanemi's astonishment, Kagaya apologizes to him, causing the angered Hashira to stop his tirade. He mentions that he once tried to swing a sword, but it caused his blood pressure to spike and he was unable to do so even ten times. He would have wanted to be a Demon Slayer like him, to be a strong swordsman to protect others, but because it was impossible for him, he apologizes for making him do the hard work.
Kanae reveals Kagaya's devotion to the Demon Slayer Corps.
Sanemi cannot think of a response to his words and notes that the look on Kagaya's face made him think back to his mother; the affection he gave was like a parent towards their own children. He adds that if Sanemi believes they are pawns, then he is one as well; since his replacement has already been chosen, his death would be meaningless. Kagaya acknowledges that this is Sanemi's first meeting and clears up his confusion that he believes himself to be higher than them; everyone simply treats him with respect but he can be free to avoid it if it bothered him.
Instead, Kagaya only requests that he protect the lives of others as a Hashira and he apologizes for summoning him soon after Masachika's death. When Sanemi becomes surprised to hear Kagaya speak his name, Kanae revealed that since becoming Oyakata, Kagaya has memorized the name and background of every fallen member of the Corps. Sanemi is shocked further by this as he himself has forgotten the names of the Demon Slayers he fought beside. Kagaya explains that every member of the Corps has written a will; they are all similar and Masachika's was no different, as he gives it to Sanemi.
Masachika had thought of him as the younger brother he lost, and like Kagaya's own dream, he hoped for a shining future. A wish for loved ones to smile and live happily till their death without their lives cruelly threatened. Even if those loved ones aren't beside them, they must want them to live and survive; as he continues to read Masachika's will, Sanemi begins to think about Genya and tears up.
Kokushibo blocks Sanemi's shotgun blast.
Sanemi blocks Kokushibo's blade with Genya's fallen shotgun and fires at the demon, but to his chagrin, Kokushibo remains unfazed as he blocks the pellets with his katana. Using Moon Breathing, Third Form: Loathsome Moon, Chains, Kokushibo attempts to kill Sanemi once again but finds he has vanished as the dust cloud of his attack settles. He hears something approaching him and remarks that Demon Slayers appear one after another. Hearing this, Gyomei promises that the Demon Slayer Corps will never disappear until every demon is eradicated from the world.
Having arrived just in time to save the Wind Hashira, Gyomei immediately orders him to stitch his wounds as he takes on Kokushibo himself, which Sanemi acknowledges. The Stone Hashira faces Upper One and begins to spin his flail; observing his new opponent through the Transparent World, Kokushibo grows delighted at Gyomei's physicality, remarking that it had been 300 years since he fought a Demon Slayer of his strength. Gyomei begins to spin his flail faster, causing air to rush past Kokushibo as he realizes it is being drawn towards him.
Kokushibo fails to cut through Gyomei's chain.
Gyomei releases his grip and launches the spiked flail, sending it flying towards the demon and narrowly missing his mark. Kokushibo attempts to use his Moon Breathing but is forced to bend backwards and avoid Gyomei's axe, which he threw immediately after his first attack. He attempts again but Gyomei attacks first with Stone Breathing, Second Form: Upper Smash, stomping down on his chain and driving the flail down to his opponent. Kokushibo dodges to the side but the chain wraps around his neck; he fails to cut through the links and is forced to duck down to escape getting strangled, losing a lock of hair in the process as it burns on contact.
He notes that the chain, axe, and flail are all made of pure iron, making it an extremely refined weapon; as his sword is made of his own flesh, it will burn itself on Gyomei's weapon before it will ever break. He notes that iron that has absorbed so much sunlight wasn't discovered during the Sengoku period, when sword smithing was at its peak. Nonetheless, he knows that going into striking range will benefit him; Kokushibo lunges for an attack and swings at Gyomei's neck. To his surprise, he misses completely as Gyomei leaps high above the attack and throws his axe at him, ripping a part of his haori.
Gyomei's Volcanic Rock, Rapid Conquest clashes with Kokushibo's Pearl Flower Moongazing.
As the Stone Hashira continues, Kokushibo is shocked to see someone capable of wielding such a weapon still being able to fight with belying lightness and agility. The chain wraps around Kokushibo's sword and snaps its blade before the demon can move it. The Hashira and the Upper Rank then meet in a head-on clash of techniques; Kokushibo uses Moon Breathing, Second Form: Pearl Flower Moongazing and Gyomei meets this with Stone Breathing, Fourth Form: Volcanic Rock, Rapid Conquest.
In the aftermath, Kokushibo reveals that whenever his blade breaks, it will always heal, rendering attacks against it useless, while Gyomei on the other hand has sustained a cut across the face. Breathing deeply, he remarks that he had wanted to save it for Muzan but if he was to fail now, he will fall back to where he started. Declaring that he has nothing to lose using it, Gyomei flexes his arms and manifests the mark.
Within another part of the Infinity Castle, Kanao and Inosuke leave Doma's water garden and head out, where they are about to reunite with Zenitsu and Murata behind a corner, the latter of which is supporting the former as he awakens from the ordeal from his recent battle.
After enough effort, Muichiro is finally able to pull his katana out from the pillar and extricate himself. Under immense pain, he pulls the blade out from his shoulder, throwing it aside as he keels over and absorbs the pain. Slowly beginning the process of patching himself up, he notes the horrible state his body is under all of his wounds, remarking that he isn't blessed with a physique like Tengen Uzui. Regardless, Muichiro acknowledges he must at least defeat Upper Rank One to lessen the burden of the survivors; if he was going to die, he very well may do so being useful. He picks up his katana and begins to head out, but is called to by Genya before he can fight.
Surprised to see the Demon Slayer still alive, Muichiro hears Genya as he request for him to push his body towards his torso and give him the fallen lock of Kokushibo's hair to eat. He hopes to fight till the end and prevent Sanemi from dying, which Muichiro agrees to.
"Without exception, the marked ones die... before they reach the age of 25."
Noticing the mark on Gyomei, Kokushibo remarks about his situation being unfortunate. When Gyomei questions him on this, the demon notes that based on his appearance, Gyomei is 27 years of age. The Stone Hashira presses him on what he means and Kokushibo reveals that anyone who awakens the mark will die before the age of 25. Even when it manifests and increases his power, it will merely reduce his lifespan in exchange; being past the age of 25, he will likely die soon during the night. He asks if he will lament that the body and techniques he has refined his entire life will fade with his death, to which Gyomei replies that he does not; everyone is aware of the fate of being marked.
Yet it does not matter to him if it appeared or not; being in the Demon Slayer Corps already means he has no guarantee of seeing the next day. He questions if he should try cling to his life already knowing his fate and believes one cannot become a Hashira with such half-hearted conviction, before declaring that Kokushibo's insult to his existence is making him seethe with rage. An unimpressed Kokushibo replies he was not speaking about his life; he explains that by becoming a demon, he can preserve his body and techniques, calling him foolish for not understanding him. Gyomei retorts there is nothing to understand; the Demon Slayers are proud to live and die as humans, and he demands the demon stop taking his own ideas as the supreme beliefs to force onto others.
He then adds that he sensed a lie whilst they were talking, and that someone must have lived past the age of 25 whilst bearing the mark. This causes Kokushibo to pause; Gyomei proudly claims he is shaken by his taunt as Upper One angrily attempts to kill him by slashing his neck. The Stone Hashira blocks the attack with his chains and they resume battle once more.
The Wind Hashira awakens the mark.
Hiding behind a wall, Sanemi has finished stitching his wounds; he stands up and begins breathing heavily as the mark manifests on his face. Kokushibo and Gyomei trade blows until Sanemi joins the battle and goes on the offensive. As Kokushibo remarks that every Hashira of their generation is seemingly marked, he sees the Wind Hashira duck to the side as Gyomei's flail flies towards him, followng by Sanemi slashing at his feet and forcing the demon away. He realizes that the two are coordinating their attacks despite the two different Breathing Styles and the battle's fast tempo; Sanemi remarks he is glad to have undertaken Hashira Training with him.
After being fed the lock of Kokushibo's hair, Genya begins to breathe heavily and convulse as Muichiro calls out to him in worry. His arm reattaches as an eerie voice rings in his head; Genya questions who the voice belongs to as he sees that his torso has already reconnected itself and he continues to heal at a rapid rate. Noting that all this came from eating just a lock of hair, he wonders just how concentrated Upper Rank One's blood truly is. As his circulation accelerates, he sees there is also the broken piece of the demon's katana, but the voice rings inside him again, asking Kokushibo for how many Hashiras he has killed and warning him not to let them near yet. Realizing he is hearing Muzan's voice, he begins to wonder what will happen to him next if his advancement as a demon continues.
The Wind and Stone Hashira continue to attack Upper Rank One.
As he continues to fight the Stone and Wind Hashira, Kokushibo surmises that even amongst their peers, Gyomei and Sanemi are likely the strongest fighters. He makes emphasis on Gyomei; a Demon Slayer of unparalleled physicality irrespective of his blindness. Furthermore, his weapon is particularly well-crafted; by causing vibrations in the chain, Gyomei is able to accurately read his surroundings. Deciding he will destroy Sanemi's katana first, Kokushibo determines he can strike it on its side to shatter it easily, but Sanemi intercepts the slash and drives Kokushibo's katana into the floor. Seeing his reflexes are still building up, Kokushibo lunges back to avoid a slash that cuts off some of his hair.
Despite his mark empowering him, the demon still believes the Wind Hashira shouldn't be able to fight with all his wounds, yet his movements are only accelerating and becoming more precise. Gyomei suddenly appears in front of him and slashes his axe upwards, cutting off Kokushibo's ear. Sanemi follows through with this by performing Wind Breathing, First Form: Dust Whirlwind Cutter, cutting between them to separate Kokushibo. Together, Sanemi and Gyomei use Wind Breathing, Seventh Form: Gale, Sudden Gusts and Stone Breathing, First Form: Serpentinite Bipolar, ripping off Kokushibo's kimono. As they leap away and land, they immediately rush in for another attack, attempting to go for his head.
Gyomei and Sanemi are injured by Kokushibo.
However, Kokushibo merely stands and encourages them to attack. Sanemi and Gyomei are suddenly covered in numerous slashes before they can get close; Gyomei questions how he managed to attack at range and watches as Kokushibo reveals his katana, now greatly extended and sporting three new cutting edges along its main blade. The demon claims they merely shredded his kimono, "not even enough to kill an infant", and he remarks that after killing the two, everyone will be dispatched with ease.
As Genya ties Muichiro's sword to his remaining hand, Sanemi is narrowly hit by Kokushibo's attack and loses his index and middle fingers on his right hand. Cursing his inability to react to the demon's strike, Sanemi notes that if Gyomei had not diverted the attack's trajectory with his chain, he would have lost both of his arms. The more injuries he sustains, the slower he becomes until he is reduced to being a burden in battle; additionally, his Marechi blood is no longer affecting Kokushibo despite initially working on him. Most concerning is how Kokushibo is able to wield such an immense weapon at incredible speeds, questioning if he could even dodge the next attack or slash the sword to pieces.
Viewing the battle from a Kasugai crow wearing Yushiro's talisman, Kuina Ubuyashiki becomes startled by the turn of events and asks Kiriya if they should send more Hashira to fight Upper Rank One, noting that Tanjiro and Giyu are available. As she and Kanata anxiously wait for an answer, Kiriya decides against it and insists that Tanjiro and Giyu continue towards Muzan instead; he reaffirms his belief in Gyomei, Sanemi, Muichiro, and Genya to defeat Upper One without fail.
Kokushibo uses Moon Breathing, Eighth Form: Moon-Dragon Ringtail.
Kokushibo raises his weapon and unleashes Moon Breathing, Seventh Form: Mirrors of Misfortune, Moonlit, launching powerful long-range slashes at the two Hashira. Though Sanemi and Gyomei barely dodge them, the latter noting that the attack possesses twice the demon's normal attack range, Kokushibo follows through with Eight Form: Moon-Dragon Ringtail; a wide-arcing slash enveloped in crescent blades that cuts Sanemi numerous times. Sanemi curses the situation; he cannot aim for his head since he cannot get close, and with the demon's speed, he can only ward off his attacks defensively, which still take his full effort to do so. Kokushibo uses Ninth Form: Waning Moonswaiths to separate Sanemi from Gyomei, causing a large cut in the Wind Hashira's back.
Kokushibo uses Drilling Slashes, Moon Through Bamboo Leaves against Sanemi.
As Sanemi stumbles, Gyomei calls out to him; he orders Gyomei to ignore him as Kokushibo uses Tenth Form: Drilling Slashes, Moon Through Bamboo Leaves, launching sawblade-like projections that close in on Sanemi. Suddenly, the Wind Hashira is pushed away from the attack as the Mist Hashira grabs hold of him; Muichiro tells Sanemi he won't let him die as he can still use both of his arms. Watching the battle from behind cover, Genya questions if he can be useful in battle or if Kokushibo will simply slash through his torso again. Seeing Sanemi and Muichiro struggling, he promises to not let Sanemi die and to not fail now. As he thinks about Gyomei and Muichiro, he is anguished by his weakness and wishes he was as strong as the Hashira, and the more he wishes to save them, the more hesitant he becomes to act.
Afraid of failing to be of any use and save his friends, Genya asks why he had to be so weak, only to recall a previous chat with Tanjiro. Tanjiro had encouraged him by stating that the weakest amongst a group of people has the most potential. When he fought Upper Rank Six, it was because he was weak that he changed the tides of battle. Surpassing enough people means an opponent will categorize them into the strong and focus on being vigilant against them; if the enemy believes him to be weak, their guard won't be as strong against them and they can deal an unexpected blow; doing that will pave the way to victory.
Remembering Tanjiro's words, Genya steels his resolves to save the Hashira and win, revealing the broken shard of Kokushibo's katana blade. Vowing to not let Sanemi, the Oyakata, or any of his friends die, he swallows the katana blade; despite initially wanting to save it for when he was attacked again, Genya had rejected this and has chosen to act now.
Kokushibo uses Sixteenth Form: Moonbow Half Moon.
Gyomei attempts to perform Stone Breathing, Fifth Form but is intercepted by Kokushibo's Moon Breathing, Sixteenth Form: Moonbow, Half Moon, summoning downward striking slashes around him and Sanemi. The Stone Hashira grows frustrated by how many forms his Breathing Style has, and most concerning is the battle's current direction; Kokushibo is too fast for them, he cannot attack in return, and despite his every actions being based on anticipation, the battle's pace is too fast for him. Making any mistake means Kokushibo will pin him before getting the chance to attack.
As the demon is seemingly predicting the moment he attempts to use a technique, Gyomei wonders what kind of divine power Kokushibo is using, what his eyes see and what he is seeing. Despite the tides of the battle, he resolves to find out, acknowledging that demons are just transformed humans; anything they can do, humans can as well, and he declares that his blind eyes can see a person's true nature, never to be misled.
Gyomei sees into the Transparent World.
As they continue, Gyomei watches Kokushibo performing an attack, and to his shock, he can perceive his pulse and see through his bones and muscles for a moment. At the same time, Muichiro resolves to get inside the demon's attack range; if he can slow down Upper Rank One's movements for even a second, it will enable Sanemi and Gyomei to behead him. Having lost an arm and with the bleeding continuing to worsen, he does not have much time left and pushes himself to act whilst he can move. Suddenly Gyomei yells out Sanemi's name, and simultaneously, all three Hashira charge towards Kokushibo; Muichiro realizes that the other Hashira are adjusting to his plan.
Muichiro stabs Kokushibo, losing his left leg.
Seeing this, Kokushibo remarks they have no option left but a frontal assault, which he can use to wipe out the three all at once. Using Moon Breathing, Fourteenth Form: Catastrophe, Tenman Crescent Moon, he envelops the area before him in swaths of large, rotating slashes covered in crescent blades. Muichiro pushes himself to squeeze between the gaps of the attack, while Sanemi resorts to ducking beneath the slashes instead. Gyomei suddenly throws a bead from his rosary, hitting Kokushibo's hand. Though it doesn't harm him, he questions if he threw it at the moment he swung his chain and how it got past his vision.
Kokushibo then bends back to avoid Sanemi's Dust Whirlwind Cutter but has his right arm destroyed by Gyomei's flail instantly afterwards. As he heals his arm and attempts to determine how Gyomei slipped past his view, his torso is unexpectedly stabbed by Muichiro, who loses his left leg and is slashed in the neck while doing so. However, his carotid artery isn’t harmed and allows Muichiro to keep fighting. Kokushibo questions how the wounded Muichiro slipped past his attacks; at first he believes it was due to Gyomei’s bead slowing him down, but he soon realizes that Muichiro’s eyes now see the same world as he is.
He also determines that Gyomei too is seeing through the Transparent World; though he only began using it in the middle of the fight, the Stone Hashira has already began fighting while taking his vision into account, manipulating his blood flow to disturb his attack pattern. Despite the unexpected developments of the battle, Kokushibo remains confident as none of their blades have reached his neck; if he can understand their plan, it will fall apart quickly. As he raising his katana to perform Moon Breathing’s sixteenth form, Muichiro resolves to hold on no matter what happens to him.
Kokushibo blocks Genya's shot.
Genya appears from behind cover, his eyes now red and yellow like Kokushibo’s and bearing a mark on his head. He recalls Muichiro’s previous words allowing him to shoot at Kokushibo despite being in the bullets’ path, to pay him no heed anymore; if he can stop Kokushibo from moving, he must shoot without hesitation. Pointing his now altered shotgun, Genya fires at Upper One, who reacts by slashing away the bullets.
Genya's Blood Demon Art of trees ensnares Kokushibo.
Despite deflecting Genya's shot with his blade, Kokushibo sees the pellets have redirected and punched into his body. He notices Genya and sees that along with his new appearance, his shotgun is changing form. Suddenly, the pellets in his body begin to soak in his blood, sprouting into giant trees that prevent him from moving; Genya's own Blood Demon Art, and he was able to achieve so by absorbing his hair and the piece of his blade. Now trapped and unable to fight, Kokushibo watches as the Hashira all converge on him at once; he is disturbed by the feeling, that of his life being threatened and his core seizing up. His composure crumbles in a detestable way as it brings back memories from 400 years ago.
That day, Kokushibo was out at night during a blood moon when he saw something he could hardly believe. His brother had approached him, now appearing old and decrepit; it had been 60 years since they last met, meaning Yoriichi was now in his 80s. He had thought it to be impossible and questioned how he still lived. He began asking how he survived given the curse of the mark supposedly killing him before the age of 25, when Yoriichi tearfully spoke and extended his sympathies towards him. "The old and ugly creature that was once my little brother... had pity for me", Kokushibo had remarked. Despite this, he himself was not angry; for 60 years he had been an eyesore in his life, but the voice calling out to him was hoarse.
"I was confused... by my own unexpected unrest."
The sensation of seeing Yoriichi crying before him, who he had known was emotionless for most of his life, gave him a feeling of confusion; he was confused by why he was unsettled to see him. He knew then that he had to kill Yoriichi and remove the last fragment of his life as a human. He was an old man past his prime, but he remained a Demon Slayer, someone he had to kill. However, Yoriichi's sentimentality disappeared as he reached for his katana and took his stance. Instantly, Kokushibo felt as if rocks had appeared on his shoulders as the weight of the air increased with his intimidating aura; Yoriichi had no openings in his stance.
Yoriichi slitting Kokushibo's neck.
His brother told him he was about to strike, but before Kokushibo could react, Yoriichi had already slit his throat. Boiling with rage, he turns to face him and asks why he had to be the special one. Despite bearing the mark, he continued to live, and the technique he displayed demonstrated his power and speed had not waned in the slightest. The vivid memories of his 60 year long grudge returned. Like jealousy burning his bones, his existence was to transcend the laws of the natural world and live like he was favored by the gods. Declaring that he hated and wanted to kill him, Kokushibo prepared for the next strike despite knowing it would kill him.
His speed, which had pushed Muzan into a corner, was nothing short of godly. He waited with a feeling of dread and unrest, as if his insides would burst to flames, but his wait was for nothing as Yoriichi never struck again; he had died standing up, his katana impaled in the ground.
As he observed Yoriichi's dead body, Kokushibo remarked that had he taken one more breath, he would have lost. For centuries, he continued to bear the indignity of never facing an honourable death; with Yoriichi's death, he will never see an honorable death. With the loss of the greatest swordsman to have ever lived, Kokushibo decided he could never lose again; he chose to continue winning, "...until... I became ugly... like this."
Kokushibo releases crescent blades from his body to free himself, mortally wounding Muichiro and Genya.
Kokushibo howls in fear of his life and releases powerful slashes from within his body without warning, narrowly missing Sanemi and Gyomei but cutting Muichiro's body below the waist and splitting Genya down the middle. Numerous katana blades cover his body; Muichiro is aghast at how he attacked so ferociously without swinging his sword, just by the sheer number of blades on him. Only moments ago, he was cornered, yet the monster that is Kokushibo is now pushing them on the brink again and he scrambles to find a way to help before his death. Nearby, the weakened Genya mutters of his hope to protect everyone regardless.
Sanemi and Gyomei attack Kokushibo together; Muichiro realizes they intend to fight him to the death, yet he cannot let them die. Muzan still awaits them and he seeks to protect the two. As Kokushibo prepares another attack, thinking quickly, the Mist Hashira grips his imbedded katana with all his might, causing it to turn bright red. Upper One feels as if his body is stiffening and his insides are set alight. Seeing him distracted allows Sanemi to land a blow on Kokushibo's neck, but the demon's durability proves too much and he can barely induce a cut in his skin. Genya, realizing his flesh bullets are still inside Kokushibo, sees the demon is distracted completely by the three Hashira.
Muichiro's blade turn bright red, burning Kokushibo.
He summons then once more and immobilizes Kokushibo completely again. Enraged by his predicament, Kokushibo prepares to release his crescent blades to kill Genya, but finds the attack cannot be released from his katana. Gyomei's flail hits home on his neck and back, burning Kokushibo as he screams in pain. Seeing his opponent's tremendous durability, Gyomei employs his axe and swings from underneath, pinning the Upper Rank's neck between both weapons. Kokushibo realizes his Blood Demon Art cannot be summon as the trees inside him are sucking his blood, and the pain in his body making him seize is coming from a red blade, similar to Yoriichi.
Upper Rank One is beheaded.
He flashes back to a time when he spoke with Yoriichi when they were both Demon Slayers; he had asked him on his plan to be succeeded. Nobody could compare to them, and because their Breathing Styles could not be taught to anyone, the techniques they have mastered will fade into history. Yoriichi spoke to his brother:
"My brother... we are not that great. We are merely a fragment of humankind's long, long history. At this moment, those whose talent will surpass ours are uttering their first cries. They may come to reach the same place. There is no need to worry. We can draw the curtain of life closed without unease at any time. Does that not exhilarate you? Brother?"
As Kokushibo reflects on his brother's words, Sanemi lands a powerful blow onto Gyomei's flail; the impact causes both weapons to turn bright red. As Upper Rank One's head finally falls from his shoulders, his brother's words ring in him once more. "Someday the children now being born will surpass us and ascend to even greater heights."
Kokushibo remarks about feeling disturbed whenever he saw Yoriichi smile; when they spoke about how the various Breathing Styles he taught had no successor, he smiled because he saw the situation with optimism. Kokushibo was proud of the fact that his generation alone was special, feeling sickened with disgust and irritation by his brother's baseless optimism for the future.
He curses the persistence of the Hashira as he recalls his memories of Yoriichi; the children of the future don't release their blades even when dismembered (Muichiro), they can use Blood Demon Arts as humans (Genya), they refuse to bleed to death as they are continually cut down (Sanemi), and they grow and surpass their limit at a rate that even matches demons (Gyomei). They do not use Sun Breathing, yet are able to turn their weapons bright red. He questions what he found amusing about such a future and claims that just the thought of losing is making him boil over with rage.
Upper Rank One vows to never again lose, even after a decapitation; with this, he stops the bleeding in his neck. Gyomei sees this and orders Sanemi to attack with everything he has and drive Kokushibo into a corner; Muichiro and Genya have given their lives and he refuses to let them die in vain. A tearful and enraged Sanemi acknowledges and promises to shred the demon into nothing. Using Wind Breathing, Eighth Form: Primary Gale Slash, Sanemi surrounds Kokushibo and slashes his body, while Gyomei performs Stone Breathing, Fifth Form: Arcs of Justice and strikes the area around the demon to trap him. Kokushibo slashes off Muichiro's dead body with his hand and attempts to pull his katana from out of his body.
Kokushibo's monstrous new form.
Declaring he will not crumble, he surmises he can still heal; with Muichiro and Genya's deaths, the bright red blade and Blood Demon Art of trees will fade and allow him to conquer death from decapitation. The Wind and Stone Hashira attack together but Kokushibo suddenly vanishes, before appearing behind them. The demon has regenerated his head, but his unstable regeneration has caused him to attained a grotesque, monstrous form. Sanemi is livid to see him regrow a head but Gyomei realizes his body will be weakened because of it. Seeing he does not heal as quickly as Muzan, they aim for his head again. Proud of his efforts, Kokushibo sees he has finally defeated death by being decapitated, leaving only the sun as the last option to kill him.
But as he boasts that he will never lose again, he sees his reflection in Sanemi's blade. Kokushibo is disgusted by his new form, before he suddenly hears a young Yoriichi's voice behind him. "My brother, is your dream to become the strongest samurai in the land? I want to be like you. I... want to become the second strongest samurai." He questions if what he appears now is truly the look of a samurai, if it was something he really wanted. In that moment, where Muichiro had stabbed him in the body begins to crumble to ash, distracting Kokushibo long enough for Gyomei to destroy his head once more.
Unable to attack, Kokushibo's body is destroyed Gyomei and Sanemi overwhelm him.
As Sanemi follows through with a ripping attack to shred his body, Kokushibo desperately attempts to use his Blood Demon Art but is unable to. As his body crumbles faster, he tries to believe he can still regenerate but sees Yoriichi's wizened visage before him, pitying the Upper Rank for his state. As Sanemi and Gyomei relentlessly destroy his body, Kokushibo remarks of his unwillingness to accept defeat, despite being decapitated, dismembered, and crushed by his enemies. He has been living in disgrace for hundreds of years just to die now, and he wonders if his fear of death had caused him to become a monster that eats humans.
"Did I become this miserable creature because I didn't want to die? No. Yoriichi... I just wanted to be you."
In reminiscence of his brother, Kokushibo remarks that anyone who has not felt jealousy is lucky to have never done so, that they have never met someone like Yoriichi, someone he believes was always favored by the gods. To him, it was as if Yoriichi was the very sun, shining so brightly and fiercely he consumed everything around him.
Yoriichi's mother sought to protect him for her husband.
During the time they were born, twins were considered a bad omen as they caused a struggle between them for succession. Additionally, Yoriichi was born with a large mark on his forehead, causing their father to consider having him killed. When their mother heard this, she became deeply enraged and grabbed him, needing to be restrained by their servants. Instead, it was decided that Yoriichi would be sent to live in the temples when he turned ten, adopting a life of priesthood. Their upbringing were polar opposites; everything from their rooms, clothes, education, and food were segregated from each other. Yoriichi was also secluded in a small room of their house by himself.
Michikatsu believed Yoriichi's poor treatment was why he constantly held onto their mother at all times, and he subsequently saw his twin as pitiful, nothing else. Despite this, behind their father's back, he gave his brother a flute he had made, knowing he would notice being given any of his own belongings. However, Yoriichi never once smiled, not doing so even as an infant; furthermore, he did not speak until he was seven and was thought to be deaf. The moment he realized Yoriichi could speak was when Michikatsu was practicing his swordsmanship, while Yoriichi stood silently in the shade. Seeing him alone was an eerie feeling when he suddenly heard his voice; he asked Michikatsu if he dreamt of being the greatest samurai in the land.
Michikatsu unnerved by Yoriichi smiling for the first time.
He was stunned as he never imagined he could speak, yet he spoke to him with such clarity, he dropped his wooden sword in shock. As Yoriichi proclaimed he would be the second greatest in deference of him, Michikatsu noted that Yoriichi would soon turn ten and become a monk. Whether he realized it or not, Yoriichi then smiled at his brother, which unnerved him. He believed someone who always clung to their mother would never give their life as a samurai. Regardless, the next time he trained, Yoriichi stood closer in the hope of receiving some instructions, upon which one of his trainers gave him a bamboo sword to humor him. After instructing him to hold it and take a proper stance, the trainer took his own stance.
In an instant, Yoriichi lands three strikes on the trainer.
Yoriichi then suddenly lunged forth and struck the trainer with three quick blows, before a fourth knocks the man down to the ground. Michikatsu was astonished as he never once was able to land a blow, yet Yoriichi had landed four in an instant; a seven year old child causing a grown man to develop fist-sized welts on his neck, chest, stomach, and foot. After that, Yoriichi decided he no longer wanted to become a samurai as he was uncomfortable at the thought of striking others. Michikatsu pressed him for the secret of his strength, and eventually, Yoriichi said that before taking a strike, he observed his opponent's skeletal alignment, muscular contractions, and blood flow.
At first, Michikatsu did not understand his answer, and it wasn't until later on when he realized Yoriichi could see into the inside of living things. The mark he bore gave him extraordinary vision as well as matching physical might. The brother he had looked down on for so long suddenly surpassed him in every way, yet Yoriichi had stated he would rather play suguroku and fly kites with him than talk about swordsmanship. Michikatsu himself sought mastery of the sword, doing so with relentless training under the belief that he could become strong by putting all his effort into it. Yet compared to Yoriichi, he was at a turtle's pace. He was given the gifts, but Yoriichi did not pursue swordsmanship at all. Irrespective of his skill, he saw it as less worthy of his time than playing games.
Michikatsu became the unfavored son, kept in Yoriichi's room.
Soon after, Michikatsu was then confined to Yoriichi's room as his trainer informed his father. Yoriichi was going to be the successor to his father while he would become a monk, his dream of being a samurai shattered. One night, Yoriichi came to his room in the early morning to inform him of their mother's death, which shocked Michikatsu. Before he could speak, Yoriichi apologized for the few details, asking he instead speak to their retainer for the details, as he was to depart for the temple soon. Surprised by this, he watches as Yoriichi reveals the flute he gave him; he thinks about the flute as if it were him and he will cherish it, never losing heart no matter how far apart they were.
Michikatsu grows jealous of Yoriichi.
Michikatsu became disgusted by this; Yoriichi treasured a crude gift and smiled about it; unable to understand why he was so happy about it, he couldn't reply back. Yoriichi then bowed his head and departed their household, carrying only a bag with him. Some time after, Michikatsu began to read his mother's diary; Yoriichi had realized his role as the successor and sought to leave before it could happen. It also seemed as if Yoriichi had known about their mother's illness as she had been suffering from the left of her body for years before her death.
It is then that he realized whenever Yoriichi clung to their mother, he doing so to support her left side, not because he was feeble or weak like he thought. The realization causes Michikatsu to be struck with jealousy, tearing his mother's diary as he curses his twin brother.
As Michikatsu begs Yoriichi to die and wishes he was never born, believing his existence was in defiance of nature, he listens to the fate of his brother. His father had sent an envoy to the temple and retrieve him, though he was not there. Yoriichi disappeared seemingly without a trace; whether it was a landslide, a bear, or being kidnapped, his wish had come true. For the next ten years, he lived peacefully; Michikatsu eventually got married and had children, but he recalls it was as if time had slowed to a crawl.
Yoriichi saves Michikatsu from a demon.
One fateful day, his camp was attacked by a demon, leaving his fellow samurai dead and him as the sole survivor. As the passage of time began to accelerate once again, he had an unexpected encounter. Yoriichi appeared and instantly struck down the demon; he was different to the person he was as a child and had completely mastered the sword, easily defeating inhuman opponents. Seeing Yoriichi again destroyed the serenity of his life, and as his stomach boiled with jealous hatred, he watched his twin kneel before and apologize for his lateness allowing his subordinates to be killed.
Now seeing Yoriichi was a seemingly faultless individual, Michikatsu decided to take his skills for his own no matter the costs. He abandoned his family and took the path of a Demon Slayer. Duriing this time, Yoriichi sought to teach his peers about swordsmanship and breathing techniques, but when none of them could match him, he altered the styles to suit them personally. This gave rise to the various Breathing Styles, and subsequently, as the Demon Slayers' power rose, so did the number of people who gained the mark like Yoriichi.
The Sengoku era Hashira discuss the deaths caused by the mark.
Eventually, Michikatsu attained a mark as well that was similar to his twin's, but in the end, he could not use Sun Breathing. Instead, he used a derivative that eventually came to be known as Moon Breathing. He had thought he could match Yoriichi's power by training, and as he languished in frustration, those who gained the mark began to die in droves. They soon discovered the mark merely exchanged a user's lifespan for the given power, and as such, the Golden Era of Demon Slayers would end; Michikatsu was subsequently left with no future or the neccessary training to surpass Yoriichi.
It was then that he encountered Muzan Kibutsuji; the Demon King tempted him by explaining he could live forever, and by doing so, he could master his Breathing Style and Muzan would gain a demonic swordsman from it. Given the choice, Michikatsu realized the path he truly sought had been laid before and he could be free of all his fetters. Yet, when Yoriichi encountered Michikatsu again 60 years later, it was a reminder that not all his shackles were gone. His twin who transcended the laws of nature had appeared before him and died, thereby defeating him once more and robbing him of victory forever.
An angered Kokushibo slashes Yoriichi's body in half.
No one, not even Muzan, could defeat, and as he demands to know why he had to always make him feel miserable, Kokushibo slashes Yoriichi's body in half. To his shock, he sees the flute he gave him when they were children and recalls his words. "I think of this flute you gave me... as you." Kokushibo attempts to force his hatred on him as he tears up at the sight of it. "Just seeing your face makes me sick. Just hearing your voice makes me so angry my head hurts."
Kokushibo laments that even after hundreds of years passing, the face he had wanted to forget the most appeared the vivid; he had long forgotten the faces of his parents, his wife, and children, yet his continued to stay clear. Yoriichi was the sun, and around him, humanity would have no path but to yearn and reach out for it as they writhed in agony until they faded. As the last portions of Kokushibo's body begin to fade, Upper One laments that he could never hold onto anything at all. Having abandoned his home, his wife and children, his humanity, and even after striking down his descendant and forgoing becoming a samurai, it was still never enough.
The death of Upper Rank One.
He recalls Yoriichi once stating that those who master their paths would all reach the same place, yet he did not and he couldn't see the world he saw. Even after Yoriichi's death, when he and Muzan killed every Demon Slayer who knew Sun Breathing and its forms, the style continues to live. Finally, as Kokushibo fades into nothing, leaving behind the flute he once gave to Yoriichi and has now kept with him for 400 years, he questions the entirety of his existence.
"Why could I not leave anything behind? Why could I not become someone? Why are we so different? Why in the world was I ever born? Tell me... Yoriichi."
As Kokushibo disintegrates entirely and is dragged down to Hell against his will, Sanemi continues to blindly attack the spot where he last remained. Gyomei orders him to relent as the demon has stop regenerating, but resorts to grabbing the Wind Hashira by force to make him stop. As he explains they have finally defeated Upper Rank One and the battle has finished, Sanemi collapses in his hold, surprising him to see he was still moving despite being unconscious. After laying him to rest on the ground, he thinks of Muichiro and Genya.
Nearby, Genya weakly calls out to him, asking for Sanemi and Muichiro's condition. Gyomei reassures the Demon Slayer that he and Sanemi are alright; Genya then points his attention to Muichiro, asking him to tend to the Mist Hashira as he will be alright. Surprised to see Genya still alive despite his wounds, he reasons this is due to him eating demons; regardless, Genya's regeneration is wearing off with his blood loss. Believing that placing marechi blood beside him would be beneficial, Gyomei moves the unconscious Sanemi to be with Genya before he tends to Muichiro; Genya is relieved to see his older brother is still alive.
Gyomei, seeing Muichiro has already succumbed to his wounds, removes his haori to cover the lower half of his body. Passionately thanking the Mist Hashira for his efforts to help them win, the Stone Hashira gives his gratitude and respect. For someone so young, he accomplished his goal magnificently, and Gyomei tearfully promises him they will not fail to defeat Muzan, before closing his eyes and asking him to finally rest.
Yuichiro becomes upset to see Muichiro, realizing he too is dead.
Muichiro awakens in the afterlife and sees his twin brother Yuichiro standing before him, but Yuichiro becomes angry and tearfully demands he return to the living world. Muichiro cries as he asks for why he wouldn't praise him for his efforts. Yuichiro instead asks why he would give his life at fourteen years old, believing he should have ran away. When Muichiro claims he couldn't simply abandon his comrades, Yuichiro replies he still shouldn't have died now, believing his death would be for nothing and giving him no reason to be born. Muichiro reminds his twin he died a sorrier death at just eleven years of age, before answering his question. "As for the reason I was born... I know that full well. I... was born to be happy."
Yuichiro and Muichiro embrace, reunited once again.
He confronts Yuichiro by asking if he was ever happy in his life, revealing he was happy to live with his family. When he was alone, he suffered many tragedies, yet he made new friends and was able to smile again as his mind becomes flooded by his happy moments. Asking to know if he had done enough, to refuse running away and risk his life for the sake of his comrades, Muichiro wipes away his tears as he demands Yuichiro to never speak to him harshly again, regardless of what anyone else says. Holding his brother by the shoulders, Yuichiro gently apologizes, acknowledging that he understands his reasoning; he simply did not want to see him dead, as he pulls his twin into an embrace.
As Sanemi opens his eyes, he suddenly screams in horror, causing Gyomei to turn back to see what is happening. Genya begins to disintegrate into ash as Sanemi questions why it is happening; Genya weakly calls out to him and Sanemi pleads with his brother not to worry as he attempts to help him. He apologizes to Sanemi for the time he condemned him during their childhood, believing he always was a trouble to him. Sanemi rejects this and claims he never once was troubled by Genya's actions, pleading that he cannot die before him.
Sanemi grieving Genya's death.
Genya thanks his brother for his protection but Sanemi retorts that he did not; to this, Genya remarks of wanting to protect Sanemi the way he has done to him. They feel the same way being brothers, and after seeing how much he has suffered, Genya only wants to see Sanemi happy and alive. "Because... my big brother... is... the nicest person... in... this world." As the Hashira pleads with the gods to spare his younger brother's life, Genya thanks his older brother for the last time before disintegrating completely.
Holding his clothes, Sanemi begins mourning the death of his brother. Gyomei calmly approaches him and implores the Wind Hashira to soldier on and raise his head, solemnly reminding him that the battle is not over until Muzan is defeated.
Continuing through the Infinity Castle, Tanjiro and Giyu hear the news of Muichiro and Genya's deaths. Tanjiro cries as he remarks that everyone now seems to be dying, yet he pushes aside the pain to focus on the mission. He wills himself to keep going until the end no matter what; as everyone before him, he must go onwards without hesitation. However, he believes himself to be unready to be a successor; after reading Senjuro's letter, he knows that Hinokami Kagura has 13 forms, yet he only knows 12. Regardless, he must defeat Muzan for everyone's sake.
Kiriya realizes they have run out of time; the Demon Slayers will not be able to reach Muzan to save Tamayo and he will return. He then receives news that the first squad of Demon Slayers has arrived at his location, with a second squad on the way. The Oyakata warns them not to engage Muzan and wait for the Hashira to arrive, but the squad is already attempting to cut the cocoon down. This fails, and they try to cut the flesh attached to the walls first. A Demon Slayer then receives Kiriya's order to stand down, but another declares they cannot stand by and do nothing, and instead they must do anything to stop him before the Hashira arrive.
Muzan annihilates the first squad of Demon Slayers.
Without warning, the cocoon splits and a transformed Muzan leaps into the air, descending to cut down the leading Demon Slayer before he can even react. In an instant, Muzan kills the Demon Slayers in a bloody flurry of slashes as he leaps instantly between them, the fighters completely unable to stand up to the demon. Kiriya frantically orders them to wait for the Hashira or they will only act as Muzan's food, but the message is received too late as Muzan proclaims they are now all dead. He sees the Kasugai crow acting as Kiriya's mouthpiece and decapitates it.
Muzan remarks that after living for a thousand years, one can lose their sense of taste; being hungry before the attack has allowed him to enjoy the flesh of the Demon Slayers. He mockingly praises Kagaya for providing him with sustenance, and though he does not know his successor to the position of Oyakata, he is greatly impressed by them. He adds that if they were to kneel before him, he would be willing to make them into a demon as his subordinates are all dead. Kiriya then orders the second squadron to fall back and avoid Muzan; if he eats them as well, he will recover his strength.
Muzan kills Tamayo.
Muzan turns his attention to Tamayo in his hand, now left as a crumbling severed head. As he mocks her attempt to poison him with her transformative drug as a failure, Tamayo boldly claims he will go to hell today. The Demon King retorts her threat as countless humans have told him those exact words throughout his existence, and it still has yet to come true. With tears welling in her eyes, Tamayo finally pleads with Muzan to give back her husband and children. In response, Muzan coldly remarks, "Die and join those relatives you killed", before crushing the demon's head and absorbing her remains.
Muzan massacres the second squad of Demon Slayers.
Elsewhere in the castle, Yushiro is suddenly racked with pain and collapses on the floor; as Takeuchi sees him and asks if he is alright, he can only claw at the floor in agony as he realizes Tamayo has been killed. Muzan soon locates the second squad of Demon Slayers and kills them, meeting no resistance as he uses his potent abilities to annihilate the troops entirely. Kiriya demands they retreat and asks if Giyu is yet to arrive there. Being informed the Water Hashira is in the other direction, Kiriya panics at the thought of Muzan massacring the Demon Slayers, leaving Tamayo's sacrifice in vain as he recovers his strength.
Deriding his fallen Upper Ranks as useless, Muzan declares that he alone will kill all of the Demon Slayers tonight.
Kuina slaps her brother to snap him from his catatonic state.
Kiriya enters a state of shock at the realization that his mistake has resulted in much of the Demon Slayers being slaughtered. He freezes in his indecision, and he cannot hear Kuina calling to him as he begins to think that the efforts made to kill Muzan over the centuries will be futile because of him. With no options, Kuina forcefully slaps her brother across the face, much to Kanata's shock; she tells him to remain strong and to give a new order as the battle is not done.
Recalling that his father, grandfather, and the past Oyakatas have also experienced the same immense pressure as him, Kiriya pushes aside his doubts. He orders the Kasugai crows to spread out and close in on Muzan, and to gather the Hashira and remaining Demon Slayers to one location. Before they continue, Kiriya thanks Kanata and Kuina for their help; Kuina acknowledges his recognition of their efforts.
Mitsuri and Obanai receive orders to regroup as Muzan has now returned, shocking the Love Hashira as she realizes they have been stalled the entire time. A similarly frustrated Obanai notes that whilst Muichiro and Genya gave their lives in the attempt to defeat Upper One, he has done nothing in comparison. He sees that while Nakime’s Blood Demon Art is not particularly deadly, she is instead prolonging the battle and preventing them from killing her while doing so. Having stalled two Hashira into doing nothing, Nakime forces Obanai to think of a new plan to allow them to rejoin. Mitsuri questions how she and Obanai can simply leave the Biwa Demon mid-battle, just as someone grabs her by the haori.
Tanjiro and Giyu face a transformed Muzan.
Nakime begins to strum her biwa, the notes echoing within the Infinity Castle as she manipulates the positions of Tanjiro, Giyu, and Muzan into one area. Coming face to face with the Demon King, Tanjiro’s breathing becomes erratic as his mind is flooded by the memories of his dead family, Nezuko, and the deceased Hashira he grew so close to. He trembles with rage as he holds his katana, forcing Giyu to order him to calm down.
Unexpectedly, Muzan remarks about their persistence; he is sick of them and his patience is wearing thin, wondering why they continue to talk about avenging those they loved and asking if just being alive is not enough for them. This enrages Tanjiro and Giyu, but Muzan continues by asking why they care about the loved ones he has killed, believing they should consider themselves lucky and continue with living on.
When Tanjiro questions how Muzan can say something with such indifference, Muzan insists they act as if those loved ones were simply killed by a natural disaster. Whether it is rain, wind, volcanoes, or an earthquake, people do not seek revenge against them, and because the dead cannot return, they should let go of their grudges and continue to live a quiet life. Most people do, and to this end, Muzan believes the Demon Slayers to be abnormal for their refusal to accept their deaths he has caused. “And I’m tired of dealing with you. I just want things to end.”
Tanjiro, having listened to the revelation of Muzan’s monstrous disregard to the lives of humanity, simply mutters one sentence: “Muzan… we… cannot allow you to exist anymore.”
As he faces Muzan head-on, Tanjiro internalizes that he has never felt such coldness towards a living being. His stomach churns with hatred, something he has never experienced before, and the extent of his hatred is pointed directly at the Demon King. Even if they were to behead him, Muzan will not die, and they must find a way to drag him towards sunlight. Regarding the orders they received, he and Giyu must stall Muzan until the other Demon Slayers can arrive and plan a way to extend the battle until the dawn’s arrival; they must ascertain and convey any advantageous knowledge about Muzan to the others. Finally, they must survive long enough to do so as it is only until that point when the true battle starts.
Muzan attacks with his bladed arms and immense speed.
Weaponizing his arms with flesh blades and hooks, Muzan ferociously attacks the Water Hashira and Demon Slayer; he takes a moment to admire his new prowess as he destroys the area around them. Giyu is barely able to block his attack with Water Breathing, Eleventh Form: Dead Calm; he remarks that his arms are as sharp as blades, he can extend them, and he possesses immense speed. Seeing that he cannot dodge Muzan's attacks on instinct alone, Tanjiro decides he must get in close by going past his attacks.
He lunges at the demon and successfully dodges his attack, enabling him to get near; Muzan suddenly throws him off-balance and cuts Tanjiro’s right eye whilst he is downed. As he questions how he was struck, Tanjiro is nearly attacked again but is narrowly saved by Giyu, who explains that they have no need to attack him directly since he is more powerful than an Upper Rank. But with nothing to shield them and no way out of the battle, he also notes the helplessness of their situation.
Tanjiro and Giyu are overwhelmed by Muzan's attacks.
Muzan overhears them and notes that sunlight cannot reach inside the castle, wondering how three Hashira can accomplish this feat. When Tanjiro and Giyu grow shocked by his statement about three Hashira, Muzan reveals that Nakime has already killed Obanai and Mitsuri; sharing his vision with his subordinate, he can see the dead bodies of the Serpent and Love Hashira. The Demon King continues his onslaught and attacks between the two Demon Slayers to separate them.
Tanjiro forces himself to attack as to not burden Giyu; while he dodges the demon’s attacks, he believes that even with one eye, he can smell out the attacks and see into the Transparent World. However, Muzan is attacking too quickly and he cannot maintain his breathing whilst dodging them, leading Tanjiro to get hit by a wall behind him when he cannot see his surroundings. Before Muzan’s arm can hit Tanjiro, Mitsuri bursts through the ceiling behind the demon, shocking him and Giyu.
Obanai orders Tanjiro to fall back.
Using Love Breathing, Sixth Form: Cat-Legged Winds of Love, she attacks Muzan but becomes stunned to see she has not harmed the demon at all. Obanai appears beside Tanjiro and orders him to stay back, seeing he is only an encumbrance in battle. Tanjiro becomes thankful to see him and Mitsuri alive, though Obanai then asks if he could worry about himself instead of others. As Muzan looks on at his unexpected opponents, he questions how they are alive and yells at Nakime about what she is doing.
Yushiro hijacks Nakime's vision, allowing him to control the Infinity Castle himself.
Yushiro, revealing himself to be the one responsible, answers Muzan's question by explaining that he now control her vision. He accuses the demon of committing the gravest sins of the world and demands he kneel in penance for his murder of Tamayo. As the entirety of the Infinity Castle begins to warp and shake violently, Yushiro declares his intentions to force Muzan out into the open.
Mitsuri becomes hesitant to attack Muzan.
Repeating biwa strums begin echoing within the Infinity Castle, changing the landscape of the battlefield rapidly. Mitsuri pushes herself to continue fighting despite the forces of the castle pummelling her, but upon seeing the angered Muzan, she grows frightened, believing him to be scarier than any demon she has faced and wishing Gyomei would arrive soon. She also remarks about Yushiro's perpetual scowl and his plan to pretend that the Hashira were dead becoming futile when Giyu, Obanai, and Tanjiro are all in danger.
Previously, when Yushiro grabbed her, he explained that whilst being a demon, he is on their side. He goes on to inform Mitsuri of his plan to handle Nakime whilst her objective was to run around the demon as a decoy Distracting her will allow him sneak behind and hijack the Biwa Demon's vision, where he can remove Muzan's influence and control her mind, leaving Mitsuri astonished by his abilities. Yushiro plans to trick Muzan into believing the Hashira and other Demon Slayers are dead, giving them time to gather their forces and attack him at once.
Mitsuri nearly slips off a moving column as she surmises that the situation is now a clash of wills between Muzan and Yushiro; though they must attack Muzan to help Yushiro, she believes she could die before it happens as the Infinity Castle becomes erratic and unpredictable. Tanjiro nearly falls through an open door as he attempts to stay close to Muzan and avoid getting separated. Realizing he cannot see Nakime's attacker, Muzan surmises them to be Yushiro and decides to kill him.
Yushiro battles Muzan over control of the Infinity Castle.
As Yushiro attempts to control the Infinity Castle using Nakime, the skin in his hand begin to decay and bleed as Muzan attempts to wrestle control of her; he sees the demon is even attempting to absorb his own cells. As the two clash, Takeuchi sees Yushiro struggling greatling and offers himself to be eaten in order to give him strength, only to be refused by the angered demon. Muzan is then attacked by Giyu and Obanai, using Water Breathing, Fourth Form: Striking Tide and Serpent Breathing, First Form: Winding Serpent Slash to circle around the demon and distract him.
Muzan kills Nakime to stop Yushiro.
Muzan subsequently loses concentration on Nakime, allowing Yushiro to push back his influence and manipulates the castle; he causes the demon to fall through the floor, but as he plummets, Muzan resorts to remotely killing Upper Rank Four. He enacts his curse and destroys Nakime's head; Yushiro realizes the Infinity Castle will collapse with her death and scrambles to control her dying cells and transport everyone outside. As Tanjiro and Obanai lose balance on the column they stand on, he sees destroyed blade and mangled bodies of the Demon Slayers, believing they must have died regretful.
With Yushiro occupied with controlling the castle, Muzan continues his attack against the Demon Slayers, destroying the floor around Mitsuri and Obanai to separate them and cutting Tanjiro in the arm. The castle begins to groan and creak; Obanai remarks that only Muzan will survive if everyone is not outside, while Mitsuri sees the building they stand on is rising. She is nearly struck by Muzan but is saved by Obanai pushing her and a timely throw from Tanjiro, using a fallen Demon Slayer's katana to impale his head. As Muzan curses Tanjiro, the building breaks through the ceiling of the Infinity Castle, causing everyone to be shoved outside into the open.

Kanata reveals dawn is still 90 minutes away.
Staring at the open sky and his surroundings, Tanjiro senses that while they are outside the Infinity Castle, the situation has become more dire. Kiriya realizes that whilst Muzan has been taken to the surface, they are in the middle of a city, far from where was expected. It had been a tug-of-war between Yushiro and Muzan over control of the castle, and while not ideal, he notes that it was an impressive feat that now has Muzan at a disadvantage. He asks Kanata for how much time until dawn arrives, but when she answers that they still have an hour and a half left, Kiriya's eyes widen with the realization that a lengthy battle still remains.
A Kasugai crow announces to the Demon Slayers that the sun will rise in one and a half hours. Hearing this, Tanjiro remarks that they still have a long time ahead of them and wonders on the whereabouts of everyone else. After spotting the shaken Mitsuri, Obanai beside her, and Giyu nearby pulling himself out of the rubble, he attempts to locate Muzan's scent beneath the castle's remains.
Muzan goads the Hashira into pinning him until dawn.
The mountain of debris suddenly erupts into the air as the Demon King reveals himself; now sporting eight blade-tipped whips on his back, he pushes away the rubble as he remarks about their intentions to hold him until dawn. "If you think you can... then go ahead and try!!" Launching his whips and arms, Muzan instigates his final assault against the Demon Slayer Corps by attacking the Hashira first.
Obanai, Mitsuri, and Giyu barely dodge his blows before they respond by attacking him directly, attempting to use Serpent Breathing, Third Form, Love Breathing, Second Form, and Water Breathing, Eighth Form. Obanai's blade weaves into Muzan's neck and begins to cut through him; despite knowing that decapitation won't kill him, Obanai hopes they can at least break up his body and weaken him that way. However, the Hashira stare at the demon in utter surprise as all of their attacks have seemingly missed their mark.
The Demon Slayers sacrifice themselves to shield the Hashira.
Mitsuri questions if they failed to land a hit, but Giyu soon realizes that they have indeed slashed him; it is Muzan who is regenerating as fast as he is cut. Obanai wonders how they will deal with Muzan if they cannot even damage him, just as Muzan prepares to wipe them out in one blow. To their shock, it is the remaining Demon Slayers who are struck instead, using themselves as human shields to protect them and dying in droves as they block Muzan's attacks.
They charge head-on with the goal of protecting the Hashira and anyone with a chance of harming Muzan; out loud, a Demon Slayer asks how many times the Hashira have saved them, believing they would have died long ago without them and pushing his peers to not hold back. The Hashira grow horrified to see them sacrifice themselves in desperate fashion, while Tanjiro attempts to follow behind them for a chance at attacking Muzan. Suddenly, he coughs blood and stumbles to the ground in pain.
Tanjiro succumbs to Muzan's poisonous blood.
In the midst of attacking, Muzan remarks that those who die quickly are lucky to have done so, and those who aren't immediately kill will follow them even if he touches them; he points the Hashiras' attention to Tanjiro nearby; unmoving and with an expression of agony on his face as a tumour-like mass grows over his slashed eye. As Giyu looks on in horror, the demon explains that he has mixed his blood into his attacks. It will not transform humans into demons and instead acts as a poison to induce cellular destruction and eventually death; he boldly declares, "Tanjiro Kamado is dead."
Nezuko suddenly wakes up, to Sakonji's shock.
As Nezuko lies unconscious, she is stirred by a vision of her father asking her to wake up, claiming that Tanjiro is in danger. She suddenly rises up and stares up in shock, much to Sakonji's confusion. Tengen and Shinjuro then hear a loud crash as Nezuko runs away from her room, with Sakonji attempting to chase after her; the former Hashira questions the demon on where she is going, while Suma is shocked to see she has broken down her doors to escape. Shinjuro informs Kiriya about Nezuko fleeing from them and asks for his next orders.
Kiriya panics at the news and cannot find a solution; Muzan cannot be controlling Nezuko because he is unable to, and if Tamayo's medicine had worked, then Sakonji would have been able to stop her. Just as he is about to order Nezuko to be brought back, he feels the hand of his father on his shoulder, allowing Nezuko to do as she pleases and reassuring his son. Kuina asks the Oyakata on who she can send after her, but Kiriya replies that it is no longer necessary. Kanata questions his intentions, as if a demon captures her, they may never get Nezuko back; Kiriya acknowledges this but tearfully answers that their father had told him to let her go.
Guided by her visions of her father, Nezuko runs through the forest, too quickly for Sakonji to keep up. She soon leaps high into the air and plummets down a cliff, landing down into the trees below safely. Unable to see her anymore, Sakonji is astonished and wonders if Tamayo's medicine has failed, as Nezuko continues to run towards the unconscious Tanjiro on the battlefield.
Muzan injures Mitsuri, Giyu, and Obanai.
As Muzan continues to battle the three Hashira, Giyu realizes he must use a sword from a Demon Slayer who used Water Breathing to keep fighting, while Obanai laments that Muzan is too fast for them. The Demon King begins to land his hits, causing deep cuts in Mitsuri's chest, Giyu's arm and leg, and Obanai's face and arm. As he fights, he expresses surprise to see that they can move with their wounds, believing their marks are making them harder to kill. Seeing she was still struck despite Giyu and Obanai defending her, Mitsuri attempts to keep fighting but collapses when the pain from her injuries flare.
Gyomei saves Mitsuri in the nick of time.
As Muzan's arm closes in on her, Obanai yells at her in vain as she asks that he save himself instead. The demon's arm is suddenly destroyed, narrowly saving the Love Hashira; the other Hashira and Muzan watch as the spiked flail that destroyed it returns to its owner, Gyomei. As he apologizes for his lateness, much to Mitsuri's tearful gratitude, Muzan instantly recognizes him as the Demon Slayer who defeated Kokushibo, just as he is sliced down the middle by the accompanying Wind Hashira.
Sanemi then hurls bottles of oil at the demon, who is soaked in the liquid as he slashes them to pieces, allowing the Hashira to set him alight with a match. Muzan taunts him for using dirty tactics, but Sanemi claims it is what he deserves, vengefully promising to kill him. Appearing out of the Infinity Castle's debris, Murata sees Muzan in the distance; he recognizes him as his family's enemy and moves to try and kill him. Giyu suddenly calls out to him and explains that Tanjiro has been downed, asking that he take him to safety and tends to his wounds.
Shocked by this, Murata quickly rushes over to Tanjiro and begins to carry him away from the battlefield; he grows tearful as he realizes that Giyu has still remembered him from when they fought together in Final Selection. Accepting that the Water Hashira has now advanced far ahead of him, he pushes himself to remain useful, as everyone else has fought hard until the end.
The sky then clears to a bright day. Tanjiro wonders if dawn has already arrived but realizes it is impossible; he also notices his inability to smell anything.
At first, Tanjiro believes the house before him is his own but notices differences that make him sure it isn't. Seeing an axe in his hand, he wonders if he had been chopping wood and if his life is flashing before him. He feels a child holding onto his clothes and addressing him as her father; Tanjiro is unsure if the child is his when he then notices she is pointing towards a tree. In the shade, Yoriichi appears and respectfully bows to him, as Tanjiro realizes he is meeting the man who first used breathing techniques.
Murata attempts to resuscitate Tanjiro as Takeuchi appears.
Murata attempts reviving Tanjiro but to no avail; he is not breathing and his heart is not beating, though with Murata's own loud breathing and heart rate, he cannot tell. He is startled when Takeuchi suddenly calls out to him from behind, thankful to see him. He explains that Yushiro is trapped beneath the rubble and he needs his assistance. Unwilling to leave and let Tanjiro die, Murata is at first hesitant to go, but Takeuchi assures him that if they can save Yushiro, he can in turn treat Tanjiro.
Sitting at Sumiyoshi's house, Yoriichi explains that he needed someone to listen to him, and the only people who came to mind were him and Suyako. Tanjiro wonders if he can ask him about the 13th form when he begins speaking; he remarks that it had been 2 years since they last met and he is glad to see he is well. Tanjiro becomes confused but he continues talking, noting that Sumire was still a baby and has grown much since then. He wonders why he cannot say anything on his mind or move as he wants to, but soon realizes he is seeing his ancestor's memories, and thus has no control over it.
Yoriichi is pleased to see his family well, as when people are happy, it makes him happy. He believes the world is a beautiful place where one is blessed to be born in it.
Yoriichi remembers his mother as a kind woman of deep faith.
His mother was a woman of deep faith, who prayed daily for strife to leave the world. She also prayed to the Sun deity to shine on his ears, as he was believed then to be deaf; she also made him hanafuda charms as earrings. He regretted causing her so much worry when he did not speak. His elder brother was a kind boy who was always concerned about him. One particular day, when Yoriichi played with his brother, their disapproving father struck Michikatsu; he later gave him a handmade flute and asked him to blow it whenever he needed him, telling him not to worry and smiling despite his bruise.
Because he was an unwanted child, Yoriichi left his home when his mother died. Initially supposed to become a priest, he ran away and explored the world beneath the night sky. Despite this, his feet did not tire after an entire day of running. When he came to the mountains, he found a small rice paddy and saw a girl standing in it. She was roughly the same age as him and was carrying a bucket as she stood still. Yoriichi asked her what she was doing, and the girl responded to his question. "My family died in a plague. I'm all alone and very lonely. So I came here to find tadpoles to take him."
Yoriichi begins living with Uta.
She continued to stand unmoving, but as the sun began to set, she freed the tadpoles instead. When asked why she let them go, the girl admitted that she felt sorry about separating them from their families. Yoriichi decided to accompany her home, causing her to turn to him; he saw her eyes were like obsidian. Her name was Uta and they decided to live together. Unlike the quiet Yoriichi, Uta could speak from morning until the evening; it was also during this time that Yoriichi learnt that he saw the world differently to other people, as Uta never knew anyone who could see through the bodies of living things. This epiphany allowed him to understand why he felt disconnected from others; it was as if he was a kite with a severed string, but regardless, Uta held onto him.
Ten years later, the two married and it was about the time Uta was to give birth. To prepare, Yoriichi set out to find a midwife and hoped to return before sundown. Along the way, he came across an old man travelling through the mountains alone. Though he had a weak heart, he was attempting to visit his son after he had been killed in battle. Yoriichi carried the man on his back and travelled to his son's location, deciding to summon the midwife tomorrow instead. He hurried home as night fell, but by the time he arrived, someone had killed Uta and their unborn child.
Yoriichi laments the existence of demons and the pain they cause.
As Tanjiro listens to his harrowing story, Yoriichi remarked, "There are those who will not hesitate to trample upon someone whose life is more precious to you than your own." For ten days, he sat in a daze as he held his wife's body, only brought out of his catatonic state when a Demon Slayer arrived. He had been pursuing the demon and encouraged Yoriichi to mourn his family properly. As he buried his family and prayed for them, Yoriichi reminisces on his resolve to keep pushing on past their deaths.
"My dream was to live a quiet life with my family in a small house where we would sleep side by side. I would be close enough to see the beloved faces of my wife and child and close enough to reach out and take their hands. That would have been enough. But even that did not come true. Demons exist in this beautiful world."
The advent of the five fundamental Breathing Styles.
He became a Demon Slayer and learnt that though humanity had always been hunting demons, they did so without using breathing techniques; he subsequently taught them. Within the Demon Slayer Corps, the best amongst them were known as the Hashira, and atop their own swordsmanship skill, learning the Breathing Styles that lead to the advent of Flame, Wind, Water, Thunder, and Stone Breathing allowed them to become even more powerful. The Demon Slayers began killing demons one after another; Yoriichi also adds that after demons had killed his subordinates, Michikatsu too became a Demon Slayer.
Soon after this, Yoriichi encountered the progenitor of all demons as he was accompanied by a girl. The moment they met, Yoriichi understood that he was born with the sole purpose of defeating him.
Upon encountering the progenitor of demons, Yoriichi immediately sensed his violent intent, describing him as an erupting volcano whose boiling magma threatened to consume everything. Muzan only spoke to him about his disinterest in swordsmen who used breathing techniques; the moment he stopped speaking, he suddenly lashed out and tried to kill him with his bladed arms. Yoriichi ducked below the attack and saw his fearsome speed and long reach. As he heard the bamboo splitting and falling behind him, he sensed that even one scratch could kill him and believed it was the first time he felt a chill down his spine.
Yoriichi overpowers Muzan in an instant.
Seeing inside Muzan, he discovered the demon had seven hearts and five brains, and in that moment, he was able to complete his sword forms. In a single attack, he cuts through Muzan's vital organs at once and dismembers his body; hearing this, Tanjiro wonders if the 13th form is part of his completed forms, wishing Yoriichi would teach him.
Muzan looked on with confusion as his body failed to regenerate, holding his head as he tries to reattach it. Yoriichi knew that his bright red blade would work on even the demon progenitor but he needed to know something about him. "What is the value of a life to you?", he asked, but the angered demon only looked to him without speaking. His reddening face made him believe his words didn't reach him. He noticed the demon girl nearby but saw that she wasn't attempting to help him. With eyes wide open, she simply stared at him and waited; it was as if her eyes were shining with a sense of hope.
Muzan's body explodes, as Yoriichi attempts to destroy all of the pieces.
Yoriichi decided to kill the demon progenitor first, but as he steps forth, he heard the sound of teeth grinding. The dismembered body suddenly bursts into hundreds of pieces, and caught off-guard, Yoriichi only managed to destroy slightly more than 1,500 of the 1,800 he saw. What remained was too small to be cut and he estimates that what escaped was enough to make a head-sized lump of flesh. As he stood still, the girl collapsed and began to cry, lamenting that despite Yoriichi's near victory, the demon managed to overcome his decapitation. She tore at her hair as she angrily yelled, "I wish that filthy man died!! Muzan Kibutsuji!!"
She then stopped and looked at herself, wondering why she was not dead. Yoriichi calmed and approached the girl, and she quickly spoke to him about Muzan; he was the demons' progenitor and he was likely to never reveal himself to him again. The girl was relieved to be free of his control due to his weakened state; when Yoriichi asked for her help, she showed initial hesitance but eventually agreed. Her name was Tamayo and he noted that she had sad eyes; Tanjiro is shocked to learn this about Tamayo. Suddenly, he heard from the Demon Slayers running to him that Michikatsu had become a demon.
Yoriichi is banished for failing to kill Muzan, Tamayo, and Michikatsu becoming a demon.
As the angered Hashira admonished him in the Ubuyashiki estate, Yoriichi was confronted by his failure to kill Muzan and Tamayo and Michikatsu's transformation. He was banished, but when some demanded that he commit seppuku as well, their Oyakata did not allow it; Yoriichi was sorry to further burden a six year old who had just lost his father. As Sumiyoshi attempts to reassure him, Yoriichi laments his failure to kill Muzan. "I think... I was born with special strength for the purpose of defeating Muzan Kibutsuji. But I was lacking. In the end, I failed. Because of that many more people will die. And that pains me."
Tanjiro is rendered speechless by Yoriichi's retelling of his life; with so much that had happened to him, he cannot find any words to offer. He hopes that Sumiyoshi would say something, but both merely sat in silence for some time. As he tries to find a way to help his hurt friend, Sumire approaches Yoriichi from behind and asks for a hug. Flustered, Sumiyoshi gently asks if he could carry her, as she enjoys it and he is taller than him, and without speaking, Yoriichi holds Sumire and lifts her up.
Yoriichi hugs Sumire in an emotional breakdown.
The little girl squeals with happiness, causing Yoriichi to break down in tears. Suyako soon returns from gathering chestnuts in the forest, only to see Sumiyoshi standing beside Yoriichi as he tearfully hugs Sumire. Seeing it is her friend, Suyako reassures Yoriichi and invites him inside for a meal, asking him to cheer up. Watching the scene unfold, Tanjiro acknowledges that he is in the middle of a battle and that Yoriichi had died hundreds of years ago.
"But... I can't help but wish that his heart will find even a little peace."
After a series of attacks from Muzan, Gyomei comments on how he appears to be getting faster, so fast that the Mitsuri barely manages to dodge his attacks on pure intuition and luck.
Mitsuri mortally wounded by Muzan's attack.
Mitsuri, before she can land an attack, realizes that she's getting dragged down by one of Muzan's arms. Another attack from him manages to slice some of the Hashira's right cheek off and injure the shoulder of her right arm. Obanai jumps to rescue her, and with the help of Sanemi, Giyu and Gyomei holding Muzan back, he's able to carry her to another Demon Slayer.
He commands him to find Yushiro to treat her injuries and the Slayer agrees. However, Mitsuri insists on keep fighting but Obanai doesn't allow her. As he leaves her, she pleads him to not die.
Obanai, as he's running contemplates the number of people that have died, all because of the existence of demons. At first, wishes that he and Mitsuri had met under normal circumstances, but takes it back saying that he would rather die (after killing Muzan that is) and cleanse himself of the filthy bloodline he carries within him. His bandages, fall behind him as he's running to reveal slits across his cheeks.
His family stole money and lived a luxurious life from it. Obanai was the first male born in the clan in over 370 years and was confined to a cell because of this. He would have died earlier if it wasn't for his heterochromia, as the demon living there (who ate offsprings in return of the humans living there), with the lower body of a serpent, decided that he should grow a more satisfying size before she'd eat him. She was also the one who ordered the other females of the clan to cut the sides of his mouth to resemble her.
Obanai is saved by Shinjuro.
During this, Obanai manages to steal a hairpin and was able to slowly cut away the wooden cage with it and escape, Kaburamaru, strayed inside the cell before their escape. Because of him, the serpent demon killed everyone else in the clan, and tried to kill Obanai but Shinjuro Rengoku, the Flame Hashira at the time cut her head off, saving Obanai and his female cousin, who threw a fit at him.
By becoming a Demon Slayer, he felt as though he became a better person, even if the souls of the dead family members always dragged him down.
Obanai restates that he would like to die by killing Muzan to purify his blood and hopes to meet Mitsuri again in another life without demons if he and her are ever reincarnated into humans, and, if that happens, he'll confess his love to her.
Nezuko Kamado continues to run towards the location of the battle as a group of Kakushi attempt to keep the site of the battle clear of civilians and redirect all approaching people to evacuate, telling them that they are a rescue team sent by the local policemen.
Another group of Kakushi examine the rubble of the buildings destroyed as a result of Muzan Kibutsuji's attack and find that no one had been harmed due to the damage except for a cat trapped in the rubble. They free it and find that it has a bag strapped to it, as it is none other than Tamayo's cat and it immediately runs off to the battle scene with it's cargo in tow.
Over at the fight, Obanai Iguro and Sanemi Shinazugawa battle Muzan at close quarters and Obanai chops off one of Muzan's arms, cleverly kicking it away as he severed it to prevent the Demon from regenerating immediately. Muzan notes this strategy as well but is unconcerned, saying that the extra time the Demon Slayer has bought is but a blink.
Muzan attacks Obanai with his whip and the Hashira rues all the energy he is having to waste just to avoid the mouths on the whips. He assuredly thinks that he will only allow himself to faint one second after dawn as every second is precious and had been bought for them with the very lives of all the members of the Demon Slayer Corps.
Obanai and Gyomei deflecting Muzan's attacks, thus saving Giyu's life.
Giyu Tomioka begins to weaken as a result of the venom he has received from all of Muzan's attacks and his sword is whipped away from him by a whip. Both Obanai and Gyomei Himejima intervene and slice it, with Sanemi grabbing his sword and throwing it near the Water Hashira and yells at him to focus and or else he will kill him. Giyu gratefully grabs the sword and performs the Water Breathing, Third Form: Flowing Dance resolving not to back down and to keep fighting till the very end.
Muzan admits that they are more resilient than he had expected but is unconcerned as it is only a matter of time before his venom kills them all, long before dawn. The Hashira continue to struggle against Muzan as the poison continues to weaken them until suddenly Tamayo's cat jumps onto the scene and ejects it's cargo: vials of antidotes to Muzan's poison. It manages to fire all the vials at the Hashira and they immediately begin to inject the antidote into them as Muzan slices the cat into pieces.
Chachamaru delivers the antidotes.
Sanemi smiles as he notices his tumors vanish and Gyomei also notices his own frenzied pulse and constant pain vanish and the Hashira are able to fight with more ease again which Sanemi is thankful for. Gyomei notes that it is possibly just a temporary cure for the symptoms but that they are fortunate for such an event to occur. Muzan quickly deduces what had happened and realises it was Tamayo's doing, cursing her for being a thorn in his side even in death. With immense fury, he launches a frenzied attack that creates multiple craters in the landscape ahead of him.
Obanai's blade turns bright red as his Demon Slayer Mark appears.
The Hashira all barely manage to dodge the attacks as Obanai wistfully thinks to himself how his contribution has been the lowest, wishing he could land more crucial blows. Thinking that when one's life is in danger one is able to exert explosive strength, he reflects back on how before he had never lifted anything heavier than a pair of chopsticks and his biggest task was escaping a prison cell.
He could not believe it himself when he had successfully done so and thinks to what Muichiro Tokito did in his final battle against Kokushibo by changing the color of his sword and that according to the crows all he would have been able to do was grip his sword tightly.
Saying he had been shocked when he heard about it and at first believed it had changed color due to a rise in temperature. However, now he realised that to obtain a bright red blade he would have to grip his sword with all his might and Obanai grits his teeth as he puts all his strength into gripping his sword and it begins to turn bright red.
Obanai Iguro reflects on how upon seeing the bright red blade he also started to see stars in his peripheral vision and realized he had made a mistake. Recognizing that he had been too fixated on tightening his grip on his sword and gaining the bright red blade that he had been close to passing out due to lack of oxygen.
He is brought back to earth with a yell from Sanemi Shinazugawa who warns him to watch out as Muzan Kibutsuji has launched an attack his way. Noting that if even one of them falls it will increase the burden on the others Obanai tries to stand up and fight, willing himself to make up for Mitsuri Kanroji's absence as well.
Giyu seeing Obanai in mid-air having successfully dodged Muzan's attack.
However, he has lost sensation in all parts of his body except for his sword hand. Giyu Tomioka attempts to intercept Muzan's attack but he isn't able to outpace the Demon's blow. Suddenly, he looks up and sees Obanai up in the air having successfully dodged the attack.
Muzan unveils his invisible attackers
Muzan sees this and attempts to attack him in midair but is shocked to see the Serpent Hashira dodge it easily again. Further surprised at his right arm and whips being cut off seemingly from nowhere, Muzan notices that it is an odd kind of cut that could not have been made by the weapons of those he is fighting.
Forcibly regrowing his severed limb with a delay, Muzan then resumes his attack to stop Gyomei Himejima and Sanemi from getting in too close on him. He is further surprised as his left arm is chopped off as a result of a similarly mysterious cut, Muzan deduces that it has to be from a blade with jagged edges and realizes that someone else is present who is also aiming to destroy him.
Obanai shocks Muzan and cuts off his arms.
Quickly assessing this new threat, Muzan analyzes his surroundings, saying that even if a spell from Tamayo's Demon could make someone invisible, it couldn't erase traces of their existence. Though he is unable to see any silhouettes through the dust clouds Muzan is still able to hear the air parting in some areas. Deducing that there are three hidden attackers around him he slices at their approximate locations and is able to land a hit on all three of them.
Inosuke Hashibira, Kanao Tsuyuri and Zenitsu Agatsuma suddenly pop into view as some seals placed on their heads get sliced off by Muzan's attacks. They are taken aback at how quickly he was able to find them out but Gyomei is pleasantly surprised to notice them all still alive as Inosuke boasts he wouldn't die and that he had plenty of seals to spare.
The Hashira turn their blades bright red.
Muzan unceremoniously interrupts Inosuke's monologue and swipes at him with a whip but his attention is drawn back to himself mid-attack as Obanai slices off both of his arms. He is displeased at the time it takes his arms to regrow from these attacks by a bright red blade and Sanemi is heartened as he notes this fact to his companions.
Kanao and Zenitsu hurriedly put on new seals and attack Muzan with Flower Breathing, Fourth Form: Crimson Hanagoromo and Thunder Breathing, First Form: Thunderclap and Flash. Enraged, Muzan calls them a bunch of pesky flies, saying they have nothing but pitiful tricks but is interrupted by Obanai who attacks him with the Serpent Breathing, Third Form: Coil Choke.
Gyomei thinks to himself that this addition to their numbers and Obanai manifesting a bright red blade has helped them and it also allows him to concentrate more. The Stone Hashira clangs his weapons together and upon impact both of them change color to bright red before swinging at Muzan and knocking off his entire left shoulder, exposing his spine.
The Demon pauses and Sanemi yells Giyu to prepare himself as he swings his blade at Giyu's, turning both of their weapons bright red as well. A crow arrives overhead and announces that dawn will break in one hour and three minutes and Sanemi declares that there is no problem as they will chop Muzan into pieces.
Yushiro injects Tanjiro Kamado multiple times with the antidote to Muzan's poison made by Tamayo to try and rejuvenate him, as the Demon Slayers around him ask if injecting Tanjiro so many times is safe for him. He quietens them and says that his condition since it's been some time since Muzan struck him.
The Demon Slayers try to free Tanjiro's katana from his hands but fail as he has a very tight grip on it, Yushiro takes this as a sign that Tanjiro still has the will to fight and suddenly the Demon Slayer holding Tanjiro's head yells out saying that he felt his pulse return.
Yushiro, Murata and Takeuchi attempting to wake Tanjiro up
They attempt to wake him up and when one of them mentions that Muzan might get away they are all taken aback as Tanjiro's katana begins to creak as his grip on it tightens considerably and he jolts back to consciousness.
The Hashira are knocked unconscious.
Back at the fight with Muzan, a Kakushi hidden out of sight peers over to see how things are faring and gets hope that they might hold out until dawn. Gyomei Himejima cleaves off the left half of Muzan's torso as Sanemi Shinazugawa rushes over to a pile of seals on the ground and puts one on his forehead.
As soon as he puts it on he is able to see Kanao Tsuyuri, Zenitsu Agatsuma and Inosuke Hashibira as the latter declares he wants a bright red blade like the Hashira as well, Sanemi launches the Wind Breathing, Seventh Form: Gale, Sudden Gusts towards Muzan.
Tanjiro saves Kanao with the Hinokami Kagura: Beneficent Radiance.
Gyomei is relieved at the arrival of the new fighters as that allowed him to concentrate more, looking into the Transparent World, he sees that Muzan has multiple hearts and brains and thus will not die if they chop off his head, he also notes that they move around inside his body making it difficult to strike them.
An idea suddenly strikes him, believing that if the others could also see Muzan in the transparent world then they would be able to strike the organs simultaneously and destroy Muzan for good. He calls out to the others to look closely at Muzan's body and see if their vision changes and if they can see through him, for an instant Obanai Iguro is able to do so and is shocked at the phenomenon.
"It's hard to tell which one of us is the Demon."
He doesn't have long to ponder on this however, as Muzan launches a devastating attack in all directions and crushes everything around him, flinging everyone into their surroundings. The hidden Kakushi is shocked at the sound and looks over again to see what had happened and is dumbfounded as he sees Muzan standing on his own and the surrounding area having sustained heavy damage.
Looking right next to him he is even more baffled as he sees Gyomei knocked into the building he is hiding behind and that he has lost a leg. His horror only grows as he sees that Sanemi has been flung into the upper storey of a tall building while Obanai, Zenitsu and Inosuke are all unconscious in the rubble and Giyu Tomioka's sword arm has been severed.
Kanao's sword is snapped in two as her seal falls off her and she falls to her knees with Muzan right in front of her. She attempts to urge herself to stand up and attack him however she can only stare transfixed at him in fear and shock. The Kakushi rushes from his hiding to place towards her as Muzan begins to attack but is interrupted by Tanjiro performing the Hinokami Kagura: Beneficent Radiance and cuts off Muzan's arm with it as the remaining stump of flesh on him sizzles.
Muzan looks at it in concern as it does not regrow immediately as Tanjiro apologises to Kanao for being late. Handing her off to the Kakushi he turns to face Muzan who says that the boy looks positively awful and taunts him by saying that in his current condition it is difficult to tell just who the Demon is between the two of them. As he gazes at the boy Muzan is reminded of Yoriichi Tsugikuni and says he makes his skin crawl and Tanjiro challenges Muzan, saying they should finish it.
Yoriichi performs Sun Breathing: Thirteenth Form at Suyako's request.
Tanjiro Kamado thinks on how his understanding changed drastically after seeing the proper forms of the Hinokami Kagura with his own eyes. Saying he noticed wasted movement in the variation of the angle of his wrist, differences in footwork and the interval between breaths. He said that Yoriichi Tsugikuni was a quiet and simple person and when Suyako Kamado asked him to show her the different sword forms he obliged.
Sumiyoshi Kamado made sure to memorize all of them, searing them into his memory, left breathless at the beauty of the movements. When he finished demonstrating, Suyako and the children were overflowing with excitement and Yoriichi bowed his head in embarrassment.
Yoriichi's smile.
Sumiyoshi asked Yoriichi to come back someday but when they parted the Demon Slayer gave his hanafuda earrings to Sumiyoshi who realised that this meant he would never see his friend again. This brought tears to his eyes and he yelled out to Yoriichi as he left that they were grateful to him for saving their lives and they would continue on his legacy.
Shouting that Yoriichi's life was not without value and that he shouldn't feel as if he hadn't accomplished anything, Sumiyoshi said he would pass down the Sun Breathing and the earrings to his future generations. Hearing all this, Yoriichi turns around and thanks Sumiyoshi with a beaming smile.
In the present, Tanjiro stands in front of Muzan Kibutsuji and thanks Yoriichi for his actions. Including sparing Tamayo whose own works had aided the Demon Slayers in fighting the Demon and for showing his Sun Breathing with which Tanjiro could assuredly defeat Muzan. He thinks to himself at how he had pondered over what the Thirteenth Form could be and how he had noticed both the First Form and the Twelfth Form had similar names, recalling that his father had told him that if he learned to breathe properly then he would be able to dance forever.
Saying that his suspicions had been confirmed when he saw Muzan's current state that performing all Twelve forms sequentially would complete a ring that would result in the Thirteenth Form. Tanjiro plans to attack Muzan by connecting all the forms together and continue to strike his brains and hearts until dawn.
Tanjiro's resemblance to Yoriichi angers Muzan.
Realising the gravity of his task, Tanjiro understands how someone such as the Flame Hashira who spoke with Yoriichi about his fight with Muzan could lose confidence. Believing that he doesn't have Yoriichi's or even his own father's skill and unsure on how he would prevent Muzan from escaping as he did against Yoriichi he asks how he can do something even the great Sun Breather couldn't. Steeling himself Tanjiro resolves to try his best, rallying himself to keep his heart burning he charges at Muzan who begins to rapidly attack him as he uses the Sun Breathing.
Seeing Tanjiro's attacks reminds Muzan of Yoriichi and he cries out that he is a ghost. He slashes around so violently that the ground around them cracks into pieces and he lands a hit on Tanjiro who is pushed back. Meanwhile Tanjiro notices how Muzan had been able to defeat everyone else, he had nine whips growing out from his back in addition to his two arms and he also had eight even faster whips that grew out of his thighs, realizing that since the Demon could change shape he needs to stop thinking of Muzan as having a fixed form to avoid being taken by surprise.
Tanjiro commences Sun Breathing: Thirteenth Form against Muzan.
Tanjiro attempts to combine all the forms to perform the Thirteenth Form by using the Sun Breathing: Dance and Raging Sun but is thwarted midway during Fire Wheel and is pushed back yet again. Unfazed, Tanjiro says he will connect all the forms as that's how they were designed to be and resolves to succeed.
Muzan Kibutsuji notes he is well aware that living creatures are able to tap into reserves of strength unbeknownst to them to escape death and looks on to see Tanjiro Kamado doing the same in his attempt to connect all twelve Forms of the Sun Breathing. He sees that Tanjiro has turned his blade bright red as well, just as the other Hashira had but is unconcerned as he says that the young Demon Slayer's attacks are nowhere near as powerful as those of Yoriichi Tsugikuni.
Tanjiro successfully connects six forms of the Sun Breathing.
As the young Demon Slayer connects the Sun Breathing: Dragon Sun Halo Head Dance and Fire Wheel, he successfully manages to connect six of the Forms, however, he notes that Muzan's organs keep moving within his body and that the Demon's attacks prevent him from attacking his torso. Beginning to feel fatigued, Tanjiro heaves and slows down but he keeps telling himself to focus on one second while connecting the Sun Breathing: Fake Rainbow and Burning Bones, Summer Sun.
Muzan notices Tanjiro's attacks begin to lose their accuracy and surmises that he will soon lose his red blade as well, saying that he is yet another swordsman who would never live up to Yoriichi nor reproduce the terrifying technique the old swordsman had used against him.
Tamayo reveals the poison has another effect.
Launching another attack towards Tanjiro, Muzan manages to connect and knock the boy back. Tanjiro coughs up blood as Muzan whips at him again, barely managing to evade it. Swiftly regaining his footing, Tanjiro resumes his task of connecting together all the forms of Sun Breathing. This puzzles Muzan as he wonders why he is struggling so much against one weak and wounded human being, who is growing weaker by the second.
Deducing that he himself is also growing slower as a one-on-one fight would have never lasted so long, Muzan suspects it is an aftereffect of the antidote injected into him by Tamayo. Resolving to ask her himself as he had absorbed her cells, Muzan seeks out her remaining presence in his subconscious.
Shinobu suggesting Tamayo to make a second drug.
Finding the remnants of the Demon within him as a severed head, Muzan holds it in his palm and asks her what she had done as he believed the drug only made Demons human again. Tamayo's head reaffirms this, but she smiles evilly and says that she won't tell him what else it does, as that would be something his multiple brains should figure out.
Enraged, Muzan crushes the remnants of Tamayo's head with his hand and tries an alternative method to figure out what had been done to him by reading the memories lying in her remaining cells. Delving through her memories, Muzan finds one of her in her lab with Yushiro and Shinobu Kocho. Recognizing Shinobu as the poison user who had fought Doma, Muzan watches as she suggested that they mix in two poisons instead of one under the assumption that he could withstand one of them, with the first poison being the antidote to turn Demons into humans and the second one being an aging potion Tamayo had concocted to make its victims older by 50 years every minute.
Tanjiro begins connecting all of the Sun Breathing forms.
Suddenly realising that he had been struggling against the Hashira and Tanjiro because his body had been diverting strength to combat his aging, Muzan attempts to calculate how much he had aged. Noting that it had been almost five hours since Tamayo had injected him with the drug and that the aging potion had only begun to take effect three hours ago, Muzan is shocked as he realizes he had aged by 9,000 years over the whole battle. Recognizing he should have noticed this earlier when the color had not returned to his hair, Muzan jerks his head to the side as he hears a crow announce that there are 59 minutes till dawn.
Tanjiro connects all the forms of  Sun Breathing.
Tanjiro keeps continuing by using the Sun Breathing: Solar Heat Haze, Beneficent Radiance, Clear Blue Sky, Fire Wheel, Raging Sun and Flame Dance. Yelling at Tanjiro to stop jumping around, Muzan attempts to attack the young Demon Slayer again with renewed ferocity, but Tanjiro dodges his attack with the Sun Breathing: Fake Rainbow, and follows that up with Dance, Setting Sun Transformation, Burning Bones, Summer Sun, Dragon Sun Halo Head Dance and the Sunflower Thrust, with that he has successfully connected all 12 forms of the Sun Breathing. With renewed hope, he determines to keep doing so until daybreak, with even greater speed and accuracy.
Yushiro and some Demon Slayers make their way towards Chachamaru's mangled body and the demon reattaches the cat's head to it's body, cradling it in his arms as it recovers. The accompanying Demon Slayers are taken aback at this and ask Yushiro if Chachamaru is also a Demon and he replies in the affirmative, saying he had turned it into a Demon shortly before the battle.
Yushiro snaps at the pair to stop dawdling and tend to the injured. They run off with vials of Tamayo's anti-Muzan serum and get to Inosuke Hashibira, Kanao Tsuyuri and Zenitsu Agatsuma.
Walking over to Gyomei Himejima, Yushiro assesses the damage on the Hashira and notes that he has lost a lot of blood in addition to his leg. Tying up the wound to stem the bleeding, Yushiro begins to worry as he declares that Gyomei is in no position to fight even if he does regain consciousness in time as the blood loss and lack of equilibrium will hinder him too much. With over 50 minutes left till sunrise, he thinks of Tamayo and asks her to help Tanjiro Kamado in his battle with Muzan Kibutsuji, saying there is no way the boy can last on his own.
Meanwhile Tanjiro continues to connect the different forms of the Sun Breathing to defeat Muzan. As he matches blows with the Demon his left sleeve is ripped off and he dodges back to avoid the attacks. Seeing that it is not enough to merely connect the forms, Tanjiro realizes he must accurately target all of Muzan's hearts and brains to effectively use the Thirteenth Form, however just as he attempts to see through Muzan to be able to do so he almost blacks out due to lack of oxygen.
Shocked at this, Tanjiro quickly attempts to regain his bearings and sniff Muzan out instead but slips and is almost done in by an attack from the Demon before Obanai Iguro intervenes and scoops him out of harm's way. Deftly dodging all of Muzan's attacks, Obanai successfully carries Tanjiro out of danger with the Demon left angrily exclaiming at their dogged resistance, asking why they just wouldn't die. Tanjiro's vision clears up and he is able to see his rescuer and he is overjoyed to recognize the striped haori of Obanai.
Tanjiro sees Obanai's scarred face.
This quickly transforms into horror as he sees the Serpent Hashira's face has been mutilated with slashes across his face and through his eyes. Mortified, Tanjiro asks if Obanai was injured while saving him but the Hashira hastily explains that it was during Muzan's attack from before which had knocked out all the Hashira. Continuing to dodge attacks from Muzan, Obanai tells Tanjiro to quit worrying about others as the boy offers to help out and says the vision impairment will not affect him greatly as one of his eyes had always been weak and that he has his snake Kaburamaru.
Confirming that Tanjiro has recovered, Obanai lets go of the boy and quickly engages in battle with Muzan, who had jumped towards them with great fury and tackles him one on one, to Tanjiro's shock. With Kaburamaru's aid Obanai dodges all of the Demon's attacks as the surrounding building is destroyed and Tanjiro rushes to use Sun Breathing again to help split Muzan's attention.
Muzan notices that the snake is relaying information to Obanai which is allowing the Hashira to dodge his attacks and is infuriated that such a simple animal is able to read through his attacks. Tanjiro and Obanai match Muzan's attacks in tandem and the Demon is further annoyed at being unable to kill such seriously wounded humans, realizing that it is due to the aging potion.
Continuing to evade Muzan's blows, Tanjiro sees that the Demon has gradually gotten weaker but is also barely hanging on himself, trying his best to avoid oxygen deprivation. Resolving to help Obanai who has helped him so much already Tanjiro is suddenly shocked to see Muzan's body begin to change as old scars appear all over it. Realizing that these were the wounds Yoriichi Tsugikuni gave Muzan so long ago which the Demon was never able to recover from. Seeing that the Demon had been burnt at the cellular level and that the wounds were his weak spots, Tanjiro says that Yoriichi was still showing them the way.
Muzan Kibutsuji reminisces over when he first saw Yoriichi Tsugikuni, recalling how he had first thought the swordsman to be weak as he exuded no drive or desire to fight Muzan or any hatred towards him. He had never expected Yoriichi would be able to cut off his head or wound him in such a way that his body right down to his cells would continue to hurt as if being hit with sunlight. Continuing, Muzan says it was entirely out of the blue and no one could have expected it and that Yoriichi had been the real monster instead of him.
Tanjiro Kamado rallies himself to take advantage of Muzan's growing exhaustion and newfound weak spots. Noticing that the scars were all moving across the Demon's body, Tanjiro concludes that they all mark his hearts and brains and now even though he cannot see through Muzan anymore due to lack of oxygen, he can still locate his organs and target them.
Trying to figure out a way to help Obanai Iguro overcome his visual impairment, Tanjiro decides to give the Hashira one of Yushiro's seals and suddenly a crow announces that there are 40 minutes left until dawn.
Upon hearing this, Muzan immediately dashes away leaving the battle, in an attempt to secure himself away from sunlight. Tanjiro quickly yells this out to Obanai who remembers that Muzan is not like a human who would act on emotion and that he would cling to his life first and foremost.
Tanjiro and Obanai continue to engage Muzan.
Muzan begins to further the distance between himself and the Demon Slayers, much to Tanjiro's frustration and suddenly passes through a crowd of Demon Slayer corpses, trampling on them in his way. This infuriates Tanjiro who reaches the corpses and begins throwing all their swords straight at Muzan who quickly slices through all of them, with great concern as piercing attacks would be far worse for him than slashes in his current state.
Nezuko arrives on the scene.
The Demon comes to an abrupt halt as Obanai drops from above and stabs him through the top of his chest, jumping away just before Muzan's whips can swipe at him. Tanjiro slices at the whips with Sun Breathing to ensure Obanai's safety but has to throw away Yushiro's seals while defending from Muzan's ferocious attacks. He yells at Obanai to jump to his right to grab them but is relieved as Kaburamaru snatches them out of the air and Obanai takes them from him and wears one.
Being able to see far better than before, Obanai begins to more effectively attack Muzan who begins to pant. Realizing that his strength will soon give way, Muzan begins to become truly concerned as far away Nezuko Kamado reaches the outskirts of the town where the battle is ongoing with one of her eyes having gone back to the way they were when she was human.
Nezuko Kamado slowly makes her way panting towards the town where the battle with Muzan Kibutsuji is underway. Suddenly she flashes back to her memory of Muzan's attack on the Kamado family.
After he had attacked all the members of the family and seen that they had all apparently died due to his attacks, the Demon notes that even with the small dose of his blood he had kept in his attacks none of them had been able to become Demons. Saying that it would be difficult for him to make a Demon who could withstand the sun, Muzan left the Kamado house, unaware that Nezuko had survived.
More memories flood Nezuko's mind as she sees visions of the people and events she and her brother Tanjiro Kamado had encountered during their journey, including Giyu Tomioka gazing at the siblings after sparing Nezuko's life, Sakonji Urokodaki about to give her a headpat, Tamayo and Yushiro during their rendezvous in Asakusa, a lovestruck Zenitsu Agatsuma gifting her flowers, and Inosuke Hashibira gifting her several acorns. She collapses to the ground, unable to keep walking and more memories flash through her brain; of the Hashira Meeting and Sanemi Shinazugawa attempting to lure her into attacking him for his blood and of Kagaya Ubuyashiki and the Hashira watching on.
She remembers her time at the Butterfly Mansion and meeting it's residents, including Shinobu Kocho who during her stay once offered to give her a closer look at the goldfish next to her. Nezuko thinks back to their adventures with Kyojuro Rengoku, Tengen Uzui and his wives after defeating Upper Rank Six, and their time at the Swordsmith Village; meeting it's residents as well as the smiling faces of Genya Shinazugawa and Muichiro Tokito.
Nezuko seeing Tanjiro reach out to her.
Finding her footing, Nezuko stands up, with her hand transforming back to a human hand as she gets up. With another memory of her brother's hand, as he told her that he would save her no matter what, Nezuko holds her head, sweating and grunting profusely and she turns back into a human, declaring that she is Nezuko Kamado, whose family was killed by a demon.
Nezuko becomes human again.
Meanwhile, the battle with Muzan rages on as the Demon rues the fact that he has still been unable to finish off Tanjiro. Sensing that the other Hashira are slowly reviving, Muzan curses the Demon Slayer Corps, saying that they are like the linked beads of a rosary which had always been there trying to end him.
A crow announces that there are thirty five minutes left till dawn and upon hearing this, he attempts to split himself into several pieces the way he had done in his fight with Yoriichi Tsugikuni. Tanjiro recognizes this technique and realizes what Muzan is about to do, calling out to Obanai Iguro, telling him Muzan's plan, secretly worried that if the Demon successfully managed to split himself then they would be unable to stop him.
However, Muzan finds that he is unable to do so and quickly realizes that this is yet another side effect of Tamayo's medicine. He is shocked yet again, however, as he suddenly coughs up blood and Tamayo tells him that there were four ingredients to the medicine and that when the first three had weakened him, the fourth would take effect. The fourth effect being the destruction of Muzan's cells, with Tamayo saying in Muzan's head with an eerily menacing grin that the death he had hated so much throughout his life was now terrifyingly near.
The apparition of Tamayo inside Muzan Kibutsuji's head tells him that there is no need for them to be stronger than him to kill him. She says that just as he would do anything to survive, then they who had suffered at his hands would do anything to kill him.
Muzan notes that in regular circumstances he would not be concerned at the bright red blades of Demon Slayers as they were all weaker than the bright red blade of Yoriichi Tsugikuni and that regeneration would not be so exhausting for him.
He curses the medicines injected into him by Tamayo as they had now rendered him susceptible to such exhaustion and made the attacks of the Demon Slayers far more potent than they normally would be. Realizing that it is different from the poison used on Doma, Muzan notes that it would take some time for him to analyze the compound and counteract it.
Suddenly, he seizes up and stands still with his head looking at the sky and for a moment Tanjiro Kamado believes that the Demon has finally started to get exhausted and that Tamayo's medicine was beginning to take it's toll on him. Both he and Obanai Iguro attempt to capitalize on this opportunity and attack Muzan but a giant shockwave with lightning erupts out of the Demon's body and strikes everything in close vicinity to Muzan.
Muzan unleashes his Shockwave Energy Blast against Tanjiro and Obanai.
Huge jaws erupt from Muzan's torso and run along ut diagonally to his back as he bares his fangs and glares at the destruction he has caused. With Tanjiro and Obanai left stunned and unable to move and Tanjiro experiencing seizures, meanwhile Kiriya, Kanata and Kuina Ubuyashiki also receive damage from the attack due to the Kasugai Crow being instantly killed in the blast and Tengen Uzui and Shinjuro Rengoku rush to their aid.
Bleeding from his nose, Kiriya hastily says that he is fine and asks if Tanjiro and Obanai are doing alright as Shinjuro wonders if Muzan somehow sensed their location to be able to cause damage. Kuina announces that there are twenty five minutes left until dawn and Kiriya asks for the Demon Slayers to hang in there and that a final victory over Muzan was within their grasp.
Inosuke faces Muzan.
Tanjiro is still unable to get up and wonders if his lungs were damaged in the attack, seeing Muzan walk away in anguish. However the Demon stops in his tracks as Inosuke Hashibira jumps in front of him with his Beast Breathing, Fourth Fang: Slice 'n' Dice, saying that Muzan had really done it now and that he wouldn't stand for it any longer. Enraged, Muzan attacks Inosuke with Tanjiro calling out for him but is only able to weakly flail his whips about.
Panting, Muzan realizes that he has become too tired after using the shockwave as Inosuke, huffing and wheezing himself, says that Gyomei Himejima had lost his leg trying to protect them and that Giyu Tomioka had lost his arm. Continuing, he tells the Demon that he had taken the lives of other Demon Slayers he had shared meals with and Inosuke demands that he give them all their lives back and tearfully says that if he couldn't then he would pay for it with a million deaths.
Muzan launches an attack at Inosuke who manages to jump out of the way but just as he lands, Muzan sends his right arm whips into the ground to catch Inosuke from below, managing to ensnare the young Demon Slayer. Tanjiro attempts to get up and help his friend but is unable to and says that he will die first. Suddenly, Inosuke is saved by Zenitsu Agatsuma who slices through Muzan's arm whip and says that Tanjiro is still alive as he can hear his heartbeat.
Yelling at Tanjiro to continue fighting and to stay alive, Zenitsu tries to bolster his spirits and tell him not to die so that Nezuko Kamado could become human again and they could go back to the house they used to live in. Muzan smacks Zenitsu into a building but Inosuke quickly slices at his whip to prevent further damage. The Demon is infuriated and attacks Inosuke as well with Tanjiro desperate to help his friends through this fight.
Positing that it could be a Blood Demon Art affecting his nervous system, Tanjiro attempts to undo it by stabbing himself in a non-vital area with his Nichirin Sword. The blade sizzles as it enters his body and Tanjiro prays that it stops the shaking enough for him to help out in the fight.
A disheveled looking Muzan looks on as Zenitsu and Inosuke recover and notes that he is unable to raise his arms anymore as both Giyu Tomioka and Gyomei Himejima make their way to the battlefield to resume their fight with him, stopping at nothing to finally kill Muzan once and for all.
Everyone prays for the success of those fighting Muzan Kibutsuji as Inosuke Hashibira and Zenitsu Agatsuma continue to attempt to hold the Demon back. Inosuke performs his Beast Breathing, Fourth Fang: Slice 'n' Dice to chop off some of Muzan's whips as Zenitsu follows it up with a Thunder Breathing, First Form: Thunderclap and Flash, Godspeed.
Zenitsu notes that he is losing his strength and he would only be able to muster one more attack with his full strength and unleashes a Thunder Breathing, Seventh Form: Honoikazuchi no Kami but it only produces a shallow cut in Muzan.
Seeing that only a Bright Red Blade could deal sufficient damage to Muzan, Zenitsu falls to the ground and Muzan slashes at him. Inosuke intercepts this attack with his Beast Breathing, Fifth Fang: Crazy Cutting, following it up with his Third Fang: Devour in rapid succession.
Tanjiro saves Inosuke from Muzan.
Muzan is enraged and unleashes a weaker shockwave from the mouth on his torso that flings Inosuke back. Before Muzan is able to do anything else however, Tanjiro Kamado intervenes and performs the Sun Breathing: Burning Bones, Summer Sun and rapidly performing Raging Sun, Fire Wheel, Beneficent Radiance and Sun Halo Dragon Head Dance.
Noting that Muzan needs to allow his shockwaves to charge before using them, Tanjiro attempts to use a Solar but coughs up blood before he can attack and is bailed out from Muzan's counterattack by Inosuke who uses a Beast Breathing, Sixth Fang: Palisade Bite. This allows Tanjiro to unleash the Sun Breathing: Dance, Clear Blue Sky and Fake Rainbow.
Tanjiro and Zenitsu aid each other against Muzan.
Zenitsu remembers his mentor Jigoro Kuwajima and asks him to give him the kick he needs. Performing another Thunder Breathing, First Form: Thunderclap and Flash Zenitsu attacks Muzan but is aggravated by the fact that he is too slow as Inosuke and Tanjiro continue their combined onslaught on Muzan with their respective Sun Breathing: Dance and Beast Breathing, Fifth Fang: Crazy Cutting. Inosuke gets knocked back but Tanjiro is able to continue attacking Muzan with the Sun Breathing: Setting Sun Transformation and Sun Halo Dragon Head Dance, with some help from Zenitsu who takes a blow intended for Tanjiro to allow his friend to continue attacking.
Muzan splits his head in half.
Tanjiro manages to use successive forms of the Sun Breathing: Sun Halo Dragon Head Dance and Raging Sun to pin Muzan to a wall with the Sun Breathing: Sunflower Thrust. He is unable to perform more techniques as the mouth on Muzan's chest attempts to take his blade. Suddenly, Mitsuri Kanroji grabs Muzan's left arm and rips it clean off his body in anger sacrificing her own arms in the process. Sanemi Shinazugawa appears and quickly chops off Muzan's right arm as well with the Wind Breathing, Eighth Form: Primary Gale Slash.
Undeterred, Muzan opens his mouth wide, going from his torso to the top of his head and attempts to eat Tanjiro with it. However, Obanai Iguro steps in and takes the bite instead, protecting Tanjiro as dawn begins to break.
The sun begins to rise and Muzan Kibutsuji is horrified at the sight of it. He unleashes another shockwave and blows Obanai Iguro and Sanemi Shinazugawa away, however, Tanjiro Kamado holds on but loses his left arm.
Tanjiro loses his arm.
Resolving to keep holding Muzan down, Tanjiro attempts to tighten his grip on his sword and make it go bright red but is unable to do so. Suddenly, Giyu Tomioka appears behind him and also grabs his blade to help keep Muzan pinned. With both Demon Slayers holding on to the blade with their combined might, it turns bright red and Muzan instantly coughs up blood.
Muzan creates an armor of flesh.
As the sun rises steadily, the demon quickly attempts to think of a way to avoid disintegrating. Muzan attempts to cover himself in a wall of flesh to block the sunlight from hitting his skin and transforms into a giant baby. As the flesh grows outward and begins to swallow up Tanjiro, he throws his head back to headbutt Giyu out of the flesh's growth and gets swallowed into it alongside his blade as the Water Hashira yells out to him.
Muzan attempts to crawl away from the scene into some shade and Kiriya Ubuyashiki orders the remaining members of the Demon Slayer Corps to do everything they could to hinder him. Some lower ranking Demon Slayers throw a bookcase on top of Muzan's head from a building, slowing him down but he still crawls forward. A pair of Kakushi ram into him with some cars yelling at him to die as Kiriya orders them to fall back. Muzan crushes the cars and attempts to crawl forward.
Sanemi uses Idaten Typhoon to slice Muzan's right hand off.
Finding his way blocked by some tram cars held by more Kakushi, Muzan attempts to overcome this hurdle as well as he slowly begins to sizzle. As Muzan attempts to crush the Kakushi behind the tram cars with his fist, Kiriya orders them to fall back and stay alive. Sanemi intervenes and slice off Muzan's right hand with the Wind Breathing, Ninth Form: Idaten Typhoon however the cut was too shallow to do anymore damage.
As Muzan continues to try and climb over the cars to avoid dying, Gyomei Himejima throws his chain around the demon's neck. With some Kakushi pulling on him, the Stone Hashira attempts to pull the demon down on to the ground with brute force. He successfully does so and Kiriya yells for the demon to finally burn and disintegrate as Kuina Ubuyashiki prays for their victory.
Muzan begins to disintegrate.
Determined not to die, Muzan continues his resistance and begins to dig underground to avoid the sun. Giyu and Sanemi work in tandem to attack the demon and strike him with the Water Breathing, Tenth Form: Constant Flux and Wind Breathing, Fifth Form: Cold Mountain Wind. They are joined by Obanai who unleashes the Serpent Breathing, Fourth Form: Twin-Headed Reptile but all three are only able to inflict minor damage.
Giyu, Sanemi and Obanai using their respective Breathing Styles while Gyomei constricts Muzan.
With everyone at their limits, Gyomei's chain shatters and Muzan begins to crawl deeper down with the others left too exhausted to further impede him. Suddenly, Tanjiro tightens his grip on his blade and attacks Muzan from the inside, causing him to rear up in agony, going straight up into the sunlight and the demon finally begins to disintegrate as he cries out. An extra manga page implies that as this is happening, the remnant of Tamayo's spirit that taunted Muzan's inability to split is finally beginning to disintegrate and pass over as well.
The sun rises on a new day, disintegrating Muzan Kibutsuji and everyone heaves a sigh of relief, crying as their battle is finally over. Kiriya Ubuyashiki orders for the injuries of the wounded to be tended to before passing out.
Gyomei Himejima refuses to accept any help from the junior Demon Slayers or Kakushi and asks for the injuries of the younger fighters to be tended to first as he knows his fate is inevitable. He begins to see all the children he used to care for at the temple appear before him and they tell him they had always wanted to apologize for the day they had been attacked by the demon.
Saying they knew that they had hurt him, they explain that they had not intended to run away but were instead trying to protect him as he was blind. One child says that he was trying to go outside to get a farming tool as a weapon while another says she had been trying to go call for help. Gyomei hears their explanations and accepts them, as they continue on and tell him they also had a reason for driving out Kaigaku that night which they would have told him had they lived to the morning.
The children apologize to Gyomei.
Wistfully wishing the next day had dawned for the children as well, Gyomei apologizes to them for being unable to protect them. The children tell him not to apologize, saying that they love him and that they had been waiting for him this whole time. Thanking them, Gyomei says that they can all now move on together and passes away with a smile on his face, leaving the Kakushi in tears.
Mitsuri Kanroji comes to and finds herself in Obanai Iguro's arms and asks him if they won. He tells her that they did and she is relieved but tells him that she cannot feel anything anymore and that she would die soon. Obanai responds that he would also be dying soon and that she wouldn't be alone. Anguished at this, she tells him not to die, apologizing for not being much use in the fight.
Retorting that this was not true, Obanai reminds her of the first time they met, when Mitsuri had gotten lost in the mansion and she recalls that Obanai had helped her. Obanai rebuffs this, saying it was the other way around and that she had been the one who saved him. He tells her that despite all the troubles she had gone through to become a Hashira she had still been so normal when they'd met and that she was still capable of enjoying the things around her like a regular human being.
"If we're reborn, and we're reborn as humans, can I be your bride?"
This had made Obanai feel like a regular boy as well and he had cherished his time with her, saying that he was sure the other Hashira had felt the same way. He tells her that her cheerfulness had saved many people around her and that she had not been useless at all. Mitsuri begins to cry and says that meals had tasted best with Obanai as he had always looked at her with great affection. She asks if she could be his bride if they are ever reborn and Obanai replies that she could definitely be if she would have him as hers and that he would make her happy and protect her.
Meanwhile, Sanemi Shinazugawa sees a vision of Genya Shinazugawa and his siblings all playing together happily in heaven but looks around for his mother who is nowhere to be seen. Turning behind to his right he senses his mother Shizu Shinazugawa standing there and pulls her hand from the darkness, telling her to join her children. However, she refuses saying that she didn't deserve to go to heaven as she had attacked her children.
Smiling serenely, Sanemi tells her that he would go along with her. Saying that Genya would be saddened to see him so soon he attempts to go with her but his hand is wrenched away by his father who says that he would be the one accompanying their mother. Sanemi yells at his father to let go of his mother but he simply responds that Sanemi isn't ready to die yet and that he was extra tough. Sanemi regains consciousness and the Kakushi are overjoyed to see this.
Tanjiro, seemingly dead.
Inosuke Hashibira regains consciousness as well and bites a Kakushi who attempted to help him while coughing up blood. Zenitsu Agatsuma tells the Kakushi tending to him to tell Nezuko Kamado that he loved her and was brave, fighting to the very end, calling her his wife as others point out that he is not married. Giyu Tomioka gets up and tries to find Tanjiro Kamado but looks forward to see the boy kneeling still holding his blade and having bled heavily after losing his arm.
The Kakushi tearfully inform Giyu that Tanjiro was no longer breathing and had no pulse. Giyu is greatly saddened, tearing up and kneeling down in front of Tanjiro. He grabs the boy's remaining hand and apologizes for having failed to protect him, saying he was always the one who ended up receiving protection. He apologises to Nezuko for being unable to protect her brother, not knowing that she had arrived at the scene and was tearfully running for her brother behind him.
Muzan Kibutsuji recounts how death had always been close to him and that his heart had stopped many times even while he had been inside his mother's womb. He had been stillborn but when he was about to be cremated, he suddenly began writhing around and crying for the first time and thus had been spared.
Muzan recalls his past.
The Demon feels relieved as he says that he had finally achieved what he had been waiting to make happen for so long. Admitting that what he could do on his own was limited, he thinks of Kagaya Ubuyashiki and concedes that what the Master had told him was correct. Saying that everything that lives must die and that only feelings were eternal, Muzan says that he did not remember even a single human being he had killed but their feelings had been passed on and had stayed alive, even managing to conquer him.
Being moved to tears at the fact that the feelings of all the people had vanquished him, Muzan is resigned to his inevitable fate. However, he says that his own feelings are eternal and undying just like anyone else's and he extends his hand towards Tanjiro Kamado who was there with him and still alive.
As he gives all of his blood to Tanjiro, Muzan says that if the boy survived this he would become the strongest Demon ever. Since he was the brother of Nezuko Kamado who was the first Demon to develop an immunity to sunlight and also the only one capable of using the Breath Style of Yoriichi Tsugikuni. As he slowly disintegrates, Muzan tells Tanjiro to make his dream come true and destroy the Demon Slayer Corps in his place.
Tanjiro's gaze as a demon.
As Giyu Tomioka kneels in front of Tanjiro and the surrounding Kakushi shed tears, one of them suddenly gapes in shock as the tumour from Tanjiro's head disappears and he opens his eyes to reveal a demonic gaze. To everyone's shock Tanjiro regenerates his left arm and swipes at the Kakushi next to him but Giyu reacts quickly and pushes the Kakushi out of harm's way.
The other Kakushi look on in fear and ask Tanjiro why he is acting in such a manner, as the boy stands drooling profusely, enjoying his newfound fangs and claws. His Demon Slayer Mark mutates and grows down to move past the bridge of his nose, with another identical mark growing upwards from his neck to almost meet the other, similar to Kokushibo's Mark.
Tanjiro as the demon King.
Giyu rushes forward and yells at the other Kakushi to get away from Tanjiro as the boy looks to swipe at him. Suddenly, the sun shines brightly from the sky and Tanjiro double takes to look at it. He begins to burn and writhes on the ground, with his swipe at the Kakushi going off target but still managing to rip off the lower half of his mask. As Giyu gets in front of the Kakushi, he tells him to run away as he prepares to face this new threat, yelling for anyone who was still conscious to grab a weapon and begin fighting.
Everyone else looks on from afar with confusion at the sudden commotion, unaware of Tanjiro's fate when Giyu suddenly announces to them that Tanjiro has become a Demon. He says that they need to pin Tanjiro down and burn him in the sun before he could kill anyone. Tanjiro suddenly attempts to find shade to stop burning but Giyu intercepts him by stabbing him from the side and dragging him to ground, with the boy clutching at his hair. Noting to himself that if he had not been interrupted by the sun, Tanjiro would have surely killed the Kakushi, Giyu wistfully begs in his mind for Tanjiro to stay who he was and die as a human.
Tanjiro becomes immune to the sun.
Suddenly, Tanjiro stops burning and Giyu looks on in shock as the boy takes advantage of the Hashira's surprise to swipe at him. Giyu narrowly dodges but his chin is grazed as Tanjiro follows up with another swipe that is intercepted by Inosuke Hashibira who yells his friend and asks him what he is doing. Giyu attempts to stand up but feels dizzy from his blood loss and cannot do so.
Inosuke stands over him and tries to remind Tanjiro that Giyu is their ally as Zenitsu Agatsuma approaches the scene, supported by a Kakushi. Tanjiro crouches down and a third Demon Slayer Mark appears from the other side of his head and he bares his fangs at Inosuke who can only look on quietly at what his become of his friend. Zenitsu looks on in disbelief at the scene and says that everyone is tired and unable to continue fighting, asking for Tanjiro to think of Nezuko. Tanjiro leaps forward to attack Inosuke who prepares to fight him.
"It's no use, I can't do it!"
Inosuke thinks back to his time together with Tanjiro and says that they are all comrades, like brothers who would pull each other back if one of them started going down the wrong path. Steeling himself by thinking that no matter how difficult it was, they would always walk the right path. Zenitsu yells at Tanjiro to stop as Inosuke thinks to himself that he would strike Tanjiro down and stop him. Suddenly hit by a memory of Tanjiro offering him some fish to eat together with a smile on his face, Inosuke stops mid-swipe at Tanjiro's neck and is unable to complete his attack, tearing up and saying it was no use and that he could not attack Tanjiro.
Giyu Tomioka, Inosuke Hashibira and Zenitsu Agatsuma look on in shock as Nezuko Kamado runs forward and hugs the now Demonified Tanjiro Kamado. As he sinks his claws and fangs into his sister she begins to bleed but Tanjiro does not proceed to drink her blood.
Nezuko desperately holds her brother back.
Crying, Nezuko hugs Tanjiro and apologizes to him for all the hardships he had to endure to make her human again. She encourages him to resist becoming a Demon and says that going through all the suffering was quite difficult but to never give up. As Nezuko tells him to come home with her, Tanjiro starts sinking his claws in deeper and lets out a wild howl.
Inosuke and Zenitsu rush forward to help Nezuko and to try and bring their friend back. Zenitsu grabs Tanjiro from behind and begs him to stop hurting Nezuko and that she had become a human again. As he tells him that she might die if he continued further, Tanjiro lets out another howl but this time is interrupted by Inosuke repeatedly hitting him on the head. Saying that Tanjiro was not the kind of person who would hurt his sister, Inosuke tells his friend to snap out of it and to go back to being his usual kind self.
Tanjiro grows whips.
Angered, Tanjiro lets out another feral howl and sends out a shockwave that flings Inosuke, Zenitsu, and Giyu back as Nezuko desperately clings on to her brother. She falls to the ground as Tanjiro gets on all fours and releases bone whips, similar to those of Muzan Kibutsuji from his back. She begs him to keep fighting his newfound Demonic tendencies, however, he still swings a whip towards Zenitsu.
Giyu intercepts the attack by performing the Water Breathing, Fourth Form: Striking Tide, saving Zenitsu and the Kakushi propping him up. Thinking to himself that things had progressed too far, with Tanjiro having bitten into Nezuko and learning the taste of blood, Giyu aims to kill Tanjiro. However, the Water Hashira acknowledges that neither bright red blades nor the sun would work on Tanjiro anymore, leaving him virtually indestructible.
Nezuko intercepts Tanjiro's blast.
Suddenly, Tanjiro charges up a ball of pure energy from his mouth. Nezuko sees this and desperately tries to stop her brother from committing any murders. Telling him that he has to stop, Nezuko puts her hand in front of Tanjiro's mouth to block the attack and it goes off course, hitting the ground instead. Giyu is able to dodge as Zenitsu calls out to Nezuko in concern. Her entire left hand and forearm begin to bleed profusely as a result of blocking the attack and she yells at her brother to stop again as he gets on all fours.
Attempting to stop him from using his whips, Nezuko puts her hand on her brother's back and Tanjiro is only able to strike the ground again. Looking on in shock, understanding begins to dawn on Giyu as he sees that somewhere inside, Tanjiro was fighting his Demonic urges, as he was always avoiding doing any lethal damage to Nezuko. Giyu decides to try and bring Tanjiro back to his senses, though he is unsure whether he would be able to perform such a miraculous feat.
Meanwhile, from behind the shade of a nearby building, Yushiro looks on at the scene, cursing Muzan for continuing to torment people even after his death. Seeing that his Blood Demon Art would disintegrate with sunlight, Yushiro feels powerless to stop the carnage. Suddenly, he sees Kanao Tsuyuri limping forward to the scene of the battle.
Kanao makes up her mind after seeing the siblings.
Looking on at the sight of the two siblings, Kanao tears up and feels sorry for them. She reaches for a vial of medicine in her front pocket and is relieved to find it undamaged. Thinking back to when she received it from Shinobu Kocho, Kanao remembers the former Insect Hashira telling her that she had made an extra vial of Tamayo's medicine in the fear that there might not be enough left for Nezuko once things had settled. She had told her that it was not necessary for her to make it as Tamayo had made three bottles of medicine to restore Demons back to humans and the Insect Hashira admitted with a wry smile that she respected the Demon.
Kanao injects Tanjiro with the cure.
She tells Shinobu this must be the reason why she still has one eye. Quickly analyzing Tanjiro, Kanao assesses that since he had still only just become a Demon, she would be able to dodge his attacks even with just one eye. Kanao activates the Flower Breathing, Final Form: Equinoctial Vermilion Eye and charges forward to Tanjiro with Giyu doing a double take and recognising the move as Kanae's. Tanjiro swipes at Kanao but she evades it by backflipping over the boy and injects the medicine into him, just as he redirects his arm and then slashes at her torso.
As she begins to bleed, Kanao tells Tanjiro that it is enough and it is time for him to come back to them. Saying that he must not make Nezuko cry, Kanao falls to the ground with a thud as something begins to stir inside Tanjiro's consciousness upon hearing Nezuko's name and the medicine begins to take effect.
Nezuko Kamado tearfully calls out to her brother, Tanjiro Kamado to return so that they may finally return home. In his subconscious, Tanjiro stirs and responds that he is very tired and wishes to return home as well.
Muzan tries to convince Tanjiro to remain as a demon.
Tanjiro prays to God, pleading to return home, saying he only wants to go with his little sister. As he raises his arm to reach forward, eyes appear on the flesh growths covering his body and begin to speak. The voice of Muzan Kibutsuji attempts to dissuade Tanjiro from returning to his loved ones, questioning what would happen after he returned to them.
Muzan tells him that his entire family is dead and there is no point in returning home, but Tanjiro responds that he still has memories of happy days there. He tells the demon lord that the memories will never disappear as long as he and Nezuko are alive, and that is why he has to go back. Tanjiro continues to slowly reach forward.
Tanjiro's deceased comrades help push him out.
As Muzan tries harder to dissuade Tanjiro, he lies to him, claiming that the boy has killed Nezuko. Unpersuaded, Tanjiro calls Muzan's bluff, asserting that Nezuko is alive and that he is lying. His deceased friends then all give him a push to the back, raising him up. Muzan tells them not to interfere and continues to try and mislead Tanjiro. Insisting that they all now hate him and do not want him to return for what he has done after becoming a demon, Muzan continues to discourage the young Demon Slayer.
Tanjiro responds that he wants to apologize to everyone for hurting them, and Muzan retorts that they would not forgive him. Undeterred, Tanjiro declares that it is not for Muzan to decide and continues moving forward, saying he can smell the concern of his friends.
Nezuko's hands pull Tanjiro up.
Growing increasingly frustrated, Muzan tells Tanjiro to be silent, and says that he is the inheritor of his will and should neither look forward nor seek hope, but instead embrace life as a demon. Telling the boy that he would die in a few short years as he had manifested the Demon Slayer Mark, Muzan urges him to think only of himself and live forever. However, Tanjiro refuses, asserting that he never wished to live forever—only to return to his friends and live as a human.
Adamantly refusing to give up, Muzan tries to manipulate him further, asking if he truly wishes to return to life after everyone else has died. Clutching his head in his hands, he asks Tanjiro if he really wants to live on without loss. More hands push Tanjiro forward, and he smells the scent of wisteria flowers. Initially believing it to be Shinobu Kocho, he tears up upon seeing Nezuko's arms reaching out for him and reaches forward to meet her.
Tanjiro wakes up as a human.
Tanjiro grasps Nezuko's hand as she attempts to pull him forward, but Muzan seizes his arm, trying to drag him back, declaring that they had finally conquered the sun and that Tanjiro must go with him. Saying that he was a rare being, Muzan urges him to listen to the cries of the dead, claiming that they all resented him for being the only one who could move on and keep his life. Rebuffing this, Tanjiro says that they were not such people and that instead, they had been willing to sacrifice their lives for others. He asserts that while they were sad and suffered, they did not wish the same for others.
As Tanjiro is nearly dragged away, Muzan desperately grabs his torso, attempting to restrain him, but in vain—Giyu Tomioka, Zenitsu Agatsuma, and Inosuke Hashibira join Nezuko in pulling him up. As even more hands reach out to pull Tanjiro up, Muzan finally loses his grip. Tanjiro regains consciousness to find Nezuko looking down on him with tears in her eyes, surrounded by his friends and the Kakushi.
Yushiro tearfully tells Tamayo that the battle is over.
Nezuko calls out Tanjiro's name, and he apologizes to everyone for the harm he has caused. Everyone begins to cheer upon hearing his voice, and Inosuke tells Tanjiro that he hadn't caused him significant harm at all. Zenitsu begins sobbing, vowing to make Tanjiro repay him for a lifetime for what he had done, before boldly declaring Nezuko his wife—much to her shock and dismay. Giyu heaves a sigh of relief, and a Kakushi holds him steady.
As Nezuko hugs her brother, they both smile through their tears, and a Kakushi wakes Kanao Tsuyuri to tell her the good news. Kanao regains consciousness and smiles as she looks at Tanjiro, who thinks to himself that he is glad she is still alive. Inosuke grabs Tanjiro's head, sobbing, while Yushiro pulls out Tamayo's hairpin and weeps, saying that it is finally over.
Three months after the battle against Muzan Kibutsuji, the world is now free of evil Demons and the survivors of the battle resolve to continue living despite all they lost. Tanjiro Kamado recovers at the Butterfly Mansion and sees the cherry blossoms in bloom alongside Nezuko Kamado. Inosuke Hashibira and Zenitsu Agatsuma sleep peacefully at the other end of Tanjiro's bed as Nezuko says the flowers look very pretty.
Tanjiro and Nezuko examine Tanjiro's hand and eye.
Examining Tanjiro's left hand, now horribly shriveled up, Nezuko asks her brother how it feels, and he responds, claiming he cannot feel anything in his left arm beneath the elbow, so he cannot use the hand anymore. Then he points to his right eye and says that while it looks okay, he cannot see anything out of it. Tanjiro asks Nezuko how she is doing, and she responds with a beaming smile that she feels perfectly fine. Still feeling guilty over having attacked her when he was a Demon, Tanjiro apologizes to Nezuko for attacking her.
Nezuko pouts and says no one cares if he turned into a Demon and attacked everyone, saying that she was just glad he was human again she tells him that if he apologizes for it again she would flick his forehead. He tells her that Giyu Tomioka told him he feared all was lost when Tanjiro had bitten Nezuko, and she laughs, saying she had felt the same. Then he tells her that Yushiro had told him it was quite lucky because they had Shinobu Kocho's medicine with them and because Nezuko had already been a Demon before, so she had developed an immunity to Muzan's cells.
Yushiro expresses his admiration for Tanjiro.
These words fly over Nezuko's head as Tanjiro hears what Yushiro had told him. The Demon had told Tanjiro that had they not had Shinobu's medicine or had Nezuko not been the one he had bitten, then he may have never become a human again. Yushiro had been impressed that Tanjiro hadn't completely lost himself since he had been a more powerful Demon than either Muzan or Nezuko, even conquering the sun in an instant. He has told Tanjiro that he admired him for having fought valiantly, and the boy had stammered over his words at the compliment, modestly saying that he had received a lot of help. Then Yushiro had told him it was a joke and not to take it seriously before picking up Chachamaru and leaving.
Kiriya thanks the Hashira and Demon Slayers on behalf of the Ubuyashiki Family.
Tanjiro had called to him before he left, asking him to stay alive and not to die, as he was the only one who could keep Tamayo's memory alive. Tanjiro had not heard from the Demon since then and was getting slightly worried about him. Suddenly remembering Giyu, he asks Nezuko where he is, and she responds that he is alright and was with Kiriya Ubuyashiki. Meanwhile, Kiriya began the Final Hashira Meeting, with the two remaining Hashira, Giyu Tomioka and Sanemi Shinazugawa both in attendance. Kiriya announces that the Demon Slayer Corps was disbanding from that moment on. The Ubuyashikis express their gratitude to the Hashira and the other Demon Slayers for their centuries of service and bow before them, with both Hashira protesting at this.
Telling the Ubuyashikis that they were the ones who kept the Corps together and that they did not want any thanks, the Hashira express their gratitude to the Ubuyashikis. Giyu tells Kiriya that he was excellent at his job and that his father and ancestors would be proud, and the Ubuyashikis tear up at these words, as Kiriya thanks Giyu for his compliment. The two Hashira look to each other and smile; their long journey is finally ended.
Tengen and his wives check up on the siblings.
Meanwhile, Tengen Uzui and his wives visit Tanjiro, being glad to meet them again. Suma rushes forward to greet Nezuko and starts loudly doting over the girl, so much so that Makio hits her for being too loud, much to her frustration. She asks Tengen if he saw Makio hit her, but he responds that he missed it. Tengen tells Tanjiro to visit them when he got better, giving him their address, and Hinatsuru handed him a snack. At that moment, Senjuro Rengoku and Shinjuro Rengoku arrive as well. Tengen beckons to them to come in and begins playing with Senjuro and Nezuko.
Shinjuro speaks with Tanjiro and thanks him for using Kyojuro Rengoku's handguard on his blade during the battle, saying it would have made his son quite happy. Tanjiro humbly replies that Kyojuro's words had been quite inspiring for him and had helped him throughout his journey. Zenitsu suddenly wakes up and finds that the Swordsmiths are waiting outside of Tanjiro's room, saying they come every day and creep him out. His shock only grows as a group of Kakushi also arrive, and they all enter the room, filling it to the brim. Zenitsu holds on to Tanjiro, scared at this turn of events as Tanjiro smiles at the sight of more of his comrades.
Meanwhile, Inosuke sneaks away into the kitchen to grab a snack as Aoi Kanzaki is busy cooking. He swipes some of the food, and she catches him, saying he was stealing again and then offering him a plate of prepared food, telling him to stop stealing food. Inosuke is impressed at how quickly she caught him and wonders if she's strong and then smiles serenely as he begins to dig into the food presented to him.
Kanao tells Tanjiro about the tree.
Kanao Tsuyuri stands in the garden, in front of a cherry blossom tree, and Tanjiro comes to meet her, saying it was a beautiful tree. She tells him that it was called Victory and had been planted by the first user of Flower Breathing, and she had come to tell it that they had finally defeated Muzan. Tanjiro asks her how she is doing, and she responds that she still has some vision left in her eyes and that her wound was better, saying that Sanemi had even given her Obanai Iguro's pet snake Kaburamaru to take care of, as the serpent slithers out of her collar.
Sanemi meets Nezuko, and she greets him, asking him how his injuries were, to which he responds that they are fine. Sanemi apologizes to Nezuko for having passed out after Muzan's defeat, leaving them to deal with Tanjiro on their own, but she cheerfully responds that it was no trouble and that she had once passed for two whole years, saying it was nothing compared to that. She then says that she loved sleeping, which makes Sanemi think of Genya Shinazugawa when he was a child and had told Sanemi that he loved sleeping because then he didn't get hungry. Sanemi smiles and pats Nezuko's head, telling her to take care, as Zenitsu jealousy looked on from around the corner of the hallway, enraged at Sanemi's actions.
Tanjiro, Nezuko, Zenitsu, and Inosuke bring flowers to the graves.
Tanjiro and Nezuko find Giyu and Sakonji Urokodaki and greet them, glad to be reunited. Later on, they go to pay their respects at the graves of all the fallen before they depart the Butterfly Mansion for the Kamado residence. Zenitsu complains that it will take all day but refuses to let Inosuke do it with his faster method, saying he would not pay the proper respect. Once they were finished and on their way to the Kamado household, Inosuke asked Zenitsu what he was carrying on his back, and Zenitsu responded that it was his gramps' remains. Puzzled, Inosuke asks what remains are and if they are edible, to Zenitsu's disgust.
Tanjiro, Nezuko, Zenitsu, and Inosuke reside in the Kamado home.
On their way back, they meet Saburo, one of the people who lived near the Kamado family and he greets them tearfully. When they arrive back at the Kamado household, they find that flowers are growing outside the house and pay their respects to the other Kamados by kneeling in front of the flowers and praying. They begin their new life together at the Kamado household and time leaps forward to a large, modern city.
Kanata Kamado tries to wake his younger brother Sumihiko up, saying he would be late for school. Sumihiko groggily responds that he is already up, but Kanata sees that he is barely awake and decides to leave for school by himself.
Toko berates Yoshiteru.
Yoshiteru Agatsuma reads 'The Legend of Zenitsu,' the autobiography of his great-grandfather Zenitsu Agatsuma, and cries when he reaches the part where they defeated Muzan Kibutsuji. Suddenly, his sister Toko, who resembles Nezuko, kicks Yoshiteru in the back and tells him to stop reading their great-grandfather's novel of lies and to focus on his studies as his grades had been unreasonably low. He objects and says that the Demon Slayers had been very cool, but Toko cuts him off and twists his ear, telling him to be cool like them and go study to get better grades.
As the two of them make their way to school together, Yoshiteru thinks to himself how the other women in his family were all quiet and polite, but Toko was nothing like them. With an annoyed expression, he asks Toko if she believes in reincarnation, and she merely snaps at him, asking what he was making such an expression for. Yoshiteru then says he believed that everyone who had died fighting Demons for a peaceful world had been reincarnated to live a peaceful life.
Tenma Uzui showing off his medal.
Toko ignores him and looks at a news alert with admiration on her phone, which declared that an athlete called Tenma Uzui had won a gold medal in gymnastics for Japan. Yoshiteru says that Tenma was rude and nasty, but Toko defends him, and he says that it truly was possible to get away with anything if one was good-looking.
Another news story catches Yoshiteru's eye, and he snatches Toko's phone from her, much to her irritation. He opens the story about a fair-looking botanist called Aoba Hashibira, who had discovered a rare flower called the Blue Spider Lily, which only bloomed during the daytime for two to three days every year. Aoba had come under intense criticism following a mistake in their handling of the lilies, which caused them all to wither, and was forced to apologize at a press conference. Yoshiteru decries this attitude towards such a beautiful woman, but Toko corrects him and tells him that Aoba is, in fact, a man, much to his shock and disgust.
The pair then encounter a woman pushing two strollers with twin children in them. They were wrapped in cloud-patterned blankets and had black hair, reminiscent of the Tokito twins Muichiro and Yuichiro. Yoshiteru asks if the twins are girls, and Toko says he is always creepy, to which he cries out and declares that he is not creepy at all.
Yoshiteru and Toko encounter Kanata.
The two then pass a pair of female students, and Yoshiteru immediately recognizes that they are from the nearby Sekirei Women's Academy, with two students being exact likenesses of Kanae Kocho and Shinobu Kocho. Toko looks at her brother in disappointment but is quickly distracted when she spots Kanata and eagerly runs over to tell him he looks cute, with Kanata returning the compliment to her delight.
Yoshiteru mutters that he has been learning how to cast curses, so they should watch out, and Toko angrily asks him what he had said, to which he whimpers an apology. They then cross next to the kindergarten, and Yoshiteru stares at the teacher, who looked exactly like Gyomei Himejima, but also notes that he looked funny in his pink apron. Toko asks Kanata if he wants to go with her to a certain diner on their way home. Kanata asks if she meant the one with the snake decor and the giant serving sizes, which Toko confirms, and Kanata responds that he is unsure if he could ever show his face there again.
Toko suggests they go to the diner.
He then tells her how the last time he had been there with Yoshiteru, the boy had kept staring at the chest of the woman who worked there, who resembled Mitsuri, and her husband, who worked there in the kitchen, had thrown a knife at them. Her husband resembles Obanai. Toko turns around to Yoshiteru in disgust and rage, as the boy stammers that this was a false accusation.
Back at the Kamado household, Sumihiko finally wakes up and notices that he was running late, wondering why no one had woken him up. He then gets ready for school and parkours his way out of his window to the bottom of their apartment and sprints for his school. On his way, he passes through a house with two elderly men playing shogi, bearing resemblance to and wearing robes similar to those of Sakonji and Jigoro; the one wearing Jigoro's robes yells out at Sumihiko, asking him why he did this every morning. Meanwhile, on the old men's television, a news report began about an Ubuyashiki who had set the record for the eldest living Japanese person. This Ubuyashiki is actually Kiriya Ubuyashiki, who became the master after his father, Kagaya Ubuyashiki, who died during the beginning of the Infinity Castle Arc.
Sumihiko on his way to school.
Sumihiko continues his race, and on the way, he runs past a store called 'Haganezuka Maintenance' and also three girls who recognized him as the running guy. The girls, who resemble Sumi, Kiyo, and Naho, giggle as Sumihiko continues his run. Arriving at a traffic light that had just gone green, Sumihiko attempts to jump over the hood of a police car to avoid having to stop. He startles the policemen inside, who are Sanehiro Shinazugawa and the reincarnation of Genya Shinazugawa. Sanehiro is incensed and believes that Sumihiko must be the one they had received seven reports of. They begin to go after him, and Sumihiko runs even faster.
He crosses a group of three children, including Giichi Tomioka and the reincarnation of Sabito and Makomo. The boys have a rare toy shaped like the masks once made by Sakonji for his pupils, with the girl saying she had run out of her allowance. The boys offer her their own so that she may also be able to get one of her own, and she is overjoyed and embarrassed at their generosity.
Yushiro Yamamoto, the mysterious artist.
At the school, Yoshiteru watches as a boy named Goto looks at his phone at an image of a beautiful woman who looks just like Tamayo. Yoshiteru interrupts the boy and his friend and says that he recognizes this as one of the paintings of Yushiro Yamamoto, which is Yushiro's alias. He had begun to receive acclaim throughout the world for his paintings of Tamayo, which were said to be like photographs. Yoshiteru notes, however, that Yushiro would attempt to shoot any reporters who came to ask him questions. Saying that his first love was No. 812 Tamayo with dark blue flowers, Yoshiteru walks off leaving the two boys bewildered at him.
Sumihiko continues to run and is joined by Tojuro, who is Senjuro Rengoku's descendant. Greeting the boy, Sumihiko says that it is unusual for him to be late, and Tojuro explains that he had woken up at 4 am but had gotten absorbed into his training. He says that he couldn't hear anything until his father whacked him, and suddenly the police car drew nearer to the boys, asking for Sumihiko to stop. Tojuro says that Sumihiko should get into a sport, but the boy responds that it would cut into his sleep, with Tojuro being adamant that he would be great at whatever he picked.
The End.
The two continue to run, with the police car asking for them to stop as they arrive at their high school, where a teacher, who looks like Murata, asks for the gate to be closed as soon as he sees Sumihiko. The person at the gate says that there are still three minutes until it should close, but the teacher insists, saying that Sumihiko was a habitual offender. As the gate begins to shut, Sumihiko says he believes they will make it, and Tojuro agrees. Both of them somersault over the gate and land inside the school, running for their classes. The police car comes to a halt, and Sanehiro walks over to the gate and tells the teacher that they need to talk.
Aoba sits on a bench in the park, noting how it is a quiet day but the lab might fire him and wishing he could live a quiet life alone in the mountains. Back at the Kamado residence, Sumihiko's mother receives a phone call and is told of his doings, being highly surprised and apologizing for the trouble her son caused. On the wall next to her, there hung many photos and a katana that is actually Tanjiro's Nichirin Blade with Kyojuro's flame hilt. Just above the blade hangs an old, yellowing picture of all those who had survived the battle against Muzan and the two Hanafuda earrings of Yoriichi Tsugikuni as the series ends.

