Tanjiro tries to stop the new demon.
The newly transformed demon bites into his wife's shoulder, horrifying the crowd around them. Tanjiro runs at the demon and pulls him away from her, stuffing his hood into his mouth as a muzzle. Despite her concerns for him, Tanjiro orders her to put pressure on her bite. Muzan tells his frightened wife that it would be best to move away and they leave the situation.
Seeing his target escaping, Tanjiro yells out Muzan's name and declares he will never let him get away. His wife becomes worried at his behavior but Muzan instead notices Tanjiro's earrings. As he declares that he will feel his sword on his neck, proclaiming he would never forgive him, the demon remembers when a Demon Slayer had him cornered, and that he too was wearing Tanjiro's earrings.
The authorities arrive at the scene and order Tanjiro to release the man immediately, not knowing his demonic nature. Tanjiro pleads with them to either restrain the man or to not interfere, not wanting any harm to come to anyone else. The police ignore him and try to pull the boy off but Tanjiro desperately holds on, unwilling to let the demon go.
Two demons offer help to Tanjiro.
A woman is seen engraving her nails into her arms causing her wounds to bleed. Tanjiro notices a shift in the scent of the environment and an illusionary pattern engulfs his vision. The police are blinded by the patterns and can no longer see Tanjiro. He goes on the defensive thinking that he is about to get attacked by another demon but is surprised when the woman comes forward accompanied by a boy. She reveals that she is as he had detected, a demon, and adds her intentions of wanting to help Tanjiro defeat Muzan.
Elsewhere in Asakusa, Muzan claims to his wife and daughter that he has a meeting to attend to, and adds that he will ask the police about the "incident" earlier, easing his family's concern. As they ride away in a taxi, Muzan shortcuts through an alleyway but accidentally bumps a drunk man. He apologizes and walks away but the man holds onto him. Muzan again apologizes and claims he is in a hurry but the drunkard does not take kindly to Muzan's expensive clothes, before mocking his skin complexion and claiming he looks half-dead.
Enraged, Muzan immediately kills the man with one swing of his arm and his lifeless body is slammed head first against a wall. The second larger man angrily approaches Muzan and demands an explanation for what happened to the other man, who he regards as his brother, and the woman accompanying the men cries out as she realizes he is dead. To her horror, she looks back to see that Muzan has killed the second man by kicking him in the air with such force that blood spews out from his mouth and rains down on her below.
Muzan finally approaches the terrified woman and mocks her with a series of questions regarding his appearance. He touches her forehead and forcefully pierces her skull, injecting massive amounts of his blood into her, as he tells her that she will not be able to withstand the transformation and her cells will disintegrate one by one. The woman starts to scream but quickly transforms into a demon-like creature before dissolving into ash.
At the snap of his fingers, two new individuals appear before Muzan, with him instructing them to kill the "demon hunter with the hanafuda earrings", alluding to Tanjiro.
At the udon vendor from earlier, the owner yells at Nezuko for not eating his food. She sits there puzzled by his anger until Tanjiro returns and takes the chopsticks from the vendors hands and quickly slurps down the noodles. He thanks and compliments the vendor's cooking before leaving with Nezuko, and the man is left somewhat angry but still flattered by his compliment.
As they walk down the street, Tanjiro apologizes for leaving Nezuko alone but is suddenly stopped by her wariness of someone at the end of the street. Tanjiro calls out him who turns out to be the demon from earlier, letting him know that there was no need to wait for him as he could've followed the scent back to the hideout. The demon rejects his claim saying that there was no way that they could be tracked and questions Nezuko's presence -since she's a demon- while simultaneously calling her a hag. Tanjiro is insulted by his remark and argues that his sister is in fact considered his town's beauty.
Nezuko and an annoyed Tanjiro following the demon.
They travel behind the demon until they arrive at a house with a pinned piece of paper. When they enter the building they stumble upon the demon lady treating the injured woman who was attacked by her spouse. Out of curiosity, Tanjiro questions if it is hard for the woman to resist wanting to attack the humans that she treats. Before she is able to respond, the demon beside him elbows Tanjiro and berates him for asking such a ridiculous question. The woman chides her assistant to stop being violent and formally introduces themselves as Tamayo and Yushiro.
Going back to Tanjiro's question, she explains that she is different from normal demons since she has altered her body and removed Muzan's curse. She goes into detail saying that she doesn't need to feed on human flesh, and only needs to drink small amounts of human blood in order to survive. Her methods involve purchasing blood from poor individuals under the facade that they would be used for medical transfusions, explaining why they do not have a distinct demon scent. Tamayo reveals that Yushiro requires less blood then she does and that he was the only individual that she was able to successfully transform into a demon after experimenting for more than 200 years.
Tanjiro and Nezuko meeting Tamayo at her office.
Being stunned by her claims, Tanjiro brazenly asks Tamayo how old she truly is, causing Yushiro to hit him in a rage. She sternly warn him not to hit Tanjiro again, before then explaining that she does not have ill intentions to increase the number of demons in the world; she simply strives to find a solution to treat the incurable so they can live a little longer. Tanjiro senses her pure intent and decides to seek Tamayo's help in finding a way to turn demons back into humans.
In an alley at another part of the city, walking down the street, a demon playing with a temari ball is seen accompanying a second demon with eyes on his hands, who begins to track a set footprints on the floor. The Arrow Demon accurately identifies their provided targets, and when the Temari Demon asks how they will kill them, he answer they will do so brutally.
Tamayo reprimanding Yushiro for hitting Tanjiro
Tamayo confirms Tanjiro's suspicions on being able to turn a demon back into a human. He rushes forward to Tamayo eager to know the method but Yushiro flips him back, preventing him from getting too close to Tamayo. She angrily warns Yushiro again not to hit Tanjiro to which he cheekily responds, "I just threw him. I did not hit him". Tamayo tells Tanjiro that in order to establish a cure, she would need to study Nezuko's blood and that he would need to collect samples from demon who contain high concentrations of Muzan's blood. She goes on to inform him that Nezuko has a rare and special condition regarding the fact that she had slept for two years to regain her strength and since she hasn't consumed human or animal flesh within that period.
Tamayo warns Tanjiro that the task of collecting demon blood would not be easy and questions if he would still be willing to try. Tanjiro responds, " If that's the only way, I'll do it. It will help, not just Nezuko but lots of others right?", and a relieved Tamayo smiles at his optimism; Tanjiro blushes slightly at her smile but quickly realizes that Yushiro is displeased. At that moment, a speeding temari begin to destroy the house's interior.
Having battered the interior and exterior of the house, the Temari Demon is impressed that her accomplice Yahaba had detected it, since it was hidden by a Blood Demon Art. He calls on her to see if their chosen target is inside but additionally chides the demon, Susamaru, for dirtying his kimono with her messy way of attacking. Bemused, she tells him to stop complaining about his clothes as she has found the inhabitants with her attack.
Hunching over Nezuko to protect her, Tanjiro is shocked to discover all the damage done was through hurling a simple temari. Yushiro sees her and wonders if the demon is a servant of Muzan. Susamaru throws her weapon again and it bounces inside the house, forcing everyone to duck. When Yushiro stands up to face her, he is suddenly decapitated when the temari unexpectedly swerves into his head. In disbelief at seeing him take a hit, Tanjiro orders Nezuko to take the injured woman away to safety.
As Susamaru laughs over killing one of her opponents, Tanjiro points his blade at the demon and notes that her scent is far stronger than all of the demons he had previously battle. Suddenly, she remarks that "the Demon Slayer with hanafuda earrings... is you", causing him to realize he is her target. He tells Tamayo to fall back, and she responds that he mustn't worry about them since they can heal. Susamaru then hurls a temari right at him; utilizing his fastest form, Tanjiro stabs it dead-on with Water Breathing, Seventh Form: Drop Ripple Thrust - Curve.
Susamaru gets serious.
Only mildly surprised, Susamaru seemingly causes the temari to slide of his blade and come back to her, with Tanjiro noting its unnatural movement were also evident when it struck Yushiro. Tamayo holds Yushiro's body and sees his neck and mouth heal, speaking of his dismay in Tamayo becoming associated with Tanjiro, since his concealment-based Blood Demon Art cannot fully hide something's existence. Healing the rest of his head, he declares his hatred of anyone interfering with his time with her.
Laughing at Yushiro's threats, Susamaru removes her kimono and states that they should be honored to be killed by her, a member of the Twelve Kizuki. She grows two new pairs of arms and creates four more temaris, now totalling six. Hurling them all at once, she succeeds in injuring both Yushiro and Tamayo, while Tanjiro struggles to find a way to stop them. Yushiro chastises him for not see the arrows; when Tanjiro becomes confused, the demon attaches a talisman imbued with his sight to his head, giving him the ability to see that the temaris being led by invisible arrows.
Nezuko attacks a hiding Yahaba.
Now able to see their direction, he directs Nezuko's attention to up a tree in the backyard, where Yahaba is hiding and controlling them. Nezuko repeatedly kicks him, causing the arrows to weaken when Susamaru throws them at Tanjiro, and he quickly uses the Water Breathing, Third Form: Flowing Dance to cut through them all.
He then rushes the Temari Demon and cuts off all her arms at once. Asking Tamayo if the demons are close to Muzan, she answers that they may be, giving him the motivation to give her their blood.
Yushiro reminds Tanjiro to stay vigilant as if the demons truly are two of the Twelve Kizuki, they will be stronger than any he has previously faced. As Tanjiro acknowledges his warning, he then suggests to Tamayo that they should run while the enemy is distracted with Tanjiro and Nezuko. When she gives him a horrified look, he quickly says he was "just joking."
Yushiro ordering Tanjiro to battle Yahaba first while he and Tamayo will work with Nezuko to handle Susamaru
At the same time, Nezuko has gone after Yahaba, kicking him repeatedly to force him out of the tree. Annoyed by the dust being kicked up, he telekinetically pushes the demon away from him. Susamaru quickly heals all of her arms, which Tanjiro notes is faster than any demon from Final Selection had managed to do, before colliding with Nezuko being shoved by Yahaba.  Yushiro orders Tanjiro to battle Yahaba first while he and Tamayo will work with Nezuko to handle Susamaru. Before continuing on to Yahaba, Tanjiro tells Nezuko to be careful and the girl then briefly sees Tamayo and Yushiro as her mother and Rokuta, giving her the determination to protect them.
Tanjiro and Nezuko switch targets.
The siblings switch positions and go after their respective targets. Facing off with Yahaba, Tanjiro sees the Opening Thread, but it very quickly snaps when Yahaba tells Tanjiro to stay away from him, using arrows to disrupt his footwork. The arrows continue to drag him around the yard before throwing him high into the air. The demon then withholds the arrow's pull, causing the Demon Slayer to plummet, only surviving by using Water Breathing, Eighth Form: Waterfall Basin to break his fall.
Tamayo warning Nezuko not to kick the temari.
Yahaba then notes to Susamaru that Tamayo is a runaway demon and believes she would make a good present for Muzan. Susamaru agrees and hurls a temari straight to Nezuko. Though Tamayo warns her not to kick it, Nezuko makes contact and the temari breaks off her right foot. As she is down, Susamaru kicks her into the house where she slams into the wall. The Temari Demon wonders if all four would be good enough to kill, though the Arrow Demon only sees value in Tanjiro and Tamayo.
Inside the house, Tamayo gives Nezuko a serum to accelerate her slow regeneration. Tanjiro meanwhile is unable to find a way to bypass the arrows, seeing as they are moving too fast, he cannot cut them with his sword, and because they will disrupt any chance he makes at attacking Yahaba. An arrow then twirls around his arm, Yahaba intending to twist it off; Tanjiro quickly leaps upwards, causing his body to spin and keep his arm in motion, breaking free and annoying the demon.
Thinking quickly, he surmises that he can use multiple forms together and change the arrows' direction. As Yahaba sends them to kill Tanjiro, he uses Water Breathing, Sixth Form: Whirlpool: Flow and catches them all in his sword's direction. Despite the heavy weight of his blade, Tanjiro musters the strength to use Second Form: Lateral Water Wheel, Improved, successfully beheading Yahaba.
Tanjiro caught in Yahaba's arrows.
After successfully decapitating Yahaba, Tanjiro notes that the Whirlpool form, though weaker in open air, was able to gain momentum by using the arrows. Yahaba rants and curses the Demon Slayer for ruining his chance at recognition from Muzan, declaring he would never forgive him. Suddenly numerous arrows begin to form within Tanjiro, the Arrow Demon intending to kill him as he dies.
Suddenly pulled, Tanjiro becomes alarmed and uses the Water Breathing, Fourth Form: Striking Tide to avoid crashing into a wall. The arrows start throwing his body in multiple directions and he is forced to use continuous breathing techniques such as the Water Breathing, Second Form: Water Wheel, then Drop Ripple Thrust, Water Surface Slash, Waterfall Basin, Water Wheel and then Striking Tide, to protect himself; while doing so, he notes that he had never used so many forms at once. Eventually, the arrows fade and Tanjiro is released.
He manages to land back to the ground with the Water Breathing, Sixth Form: Whirlpool. However, his body has already sustained a substantial amount of damage, leaving him with a broken leg and multiple rib fractures. Tanjiro lays on the ground, wincing from the pain but nonetheless grabs hold of his blade in his mouth and wills himself to move. He proceeds to crawl on the floor towards everyone else, mentally pleading for Tamayo, Yushiro, and Nezuko to be safe.
At the same time, Susamaru suddenly sees her own temari launched at her by Nezuko. Having healed and kicked it back the Temari Demon, Nezuko then engages her in a back and forth confrontation, kicking a temari at each other with increasing power and speed. Eventually, Nezuko is able to absorb the momentum and kick it back with such force, even Susamaru is forced to dodge it. Yushiro wonders if the drug Tamayo had given her had also improved her strength, but she notes that all it did was aid her regeneration.
Susamaru is affected by Muzan's curse.
They are witnessing Nezuko's own strength without devouring humans. Despite this, Tamayo knows that should Susamaru utilize her full strength, even Nezuko would lose.  As Susamaru begins to feel excitement over seeing Nezuko's power, Tamayo stands in front of Nezuko and asks the Temari Demon of what she knows of Muzan. Susamaru attempts to dismiss her as the runaway unworthy of speaking about him but Tamayo claims that Muzan is little more than a coward who is always afraid.
Angered, Susamaru tries to silence her but Tamayo continues, saying the true reasons demons don't group up isn't because they will eat each other but because Muzan fears they will all overpower his control.  Aghast, Susamaru attempts to defend her master's honour, speaking about his unmatched strength and abilities. Yushiro notes that Tamayo has used an ability. Suddenly, the Temari Demon, in her defence of Muzan, says his last name, horrifying her.
Tamayo had used Magical Aroma of Daylight: a truth serum-like spell that inhibits brain function on the affected and prevents them from withholding secrets. Tamayo mentions that saying his name will trigger the curse, and though she pities her, she had no choice. Now frightened, Susamaru runs away and desperately begs for Muzan's forgiveness, only for her body to drastically change, hunching over in pain. As Tanjiro watches, three giant arms burst from the Temari Demon's body.
Yushiro covering Tanjiro's face with a cloth
Susamaru's body is torn apart by the arms summoned by Muzan's curse. The gory scene leaves everyone in a state of shock as her body is dismantled. In the aftermath, Tanjiro asks Tamayo if Susamaru was dead and she responds that she will be shortly. She describes how fighting between demons is pointless as sunlight and beheading through Nichirin Swords are the only two ways to cause major damage; however, Muzan alone appears to be capable of destroying demons. Yushiro approaches Tanjiro and covers his face with a cloth, preventing him from breathing in Tamayo's Blood Demon Art since it is harmful to humans.
Tamayo looks at Susamaru's eyeball and reports that she was not one of the Twelve Kizuki, much to Tanjiro's dismay. She mentions how a true member would have a number engraved on their eyeball, but Susamaru and Yahaba do not, as they are too weak. Tanjiro is shocked to learn this since they put up a difficult fight. She nonetheless collects blood from Susamaru's corpse and apologizes to Tanjiro for letting Nezuko breathe in some of her spell, moving to examine her. Yushiro remarks that the demons deserved their fate for threatening Tamayo, before leaving Tanjiro to hold the cloth by himself.
Tanjiro recovers Susamaru's temari ball.
While he tries to pick himself up, Tanjiro hears a voice from Susamaru's remains asking for her temari. Slowly, he picks up the last remaining temari and places it next to her remains, listening to her asking for someone to "play" with. He notes that despite the number of people she had killed, she still retained a childish personality. As the sun comes up and her corpse completely disintegrates, Tanjiro finds no justice in her fate, being manipulated, forced to fight, and eventually killed by the one whom she worshipped. He pins the blame on Muzan and deems him a "true demon".
Tanjiro moves back into the house, going to the basement where the three demons are sheltering. Nezuko runs over to give him a hug, then runs back to Tamayo to also hug her and pat Yushiro on the head, much to Yushiro's annoyance. Confused, Tamayo questions Tanjiro for Nezuko's actions and he replies that she likely thought of them as her family, treating them as the humans she must protect rather than demons. He expresses relief that Nezuko still maintains her own will until Tamayo starts crying, shocking Tanjiro. He asks Nezuko to stop hugging her as it was rude and profusely apologizes to Tamayo, but she thanks her instead and pulls Nezuko closer.
Nezuko hugs Tamayo, much to Yushiro's jealousy.
Seeing her vulnerable, Yushiro remembers the day he had first met Tamayo: dying to a terminal illness. Tamayo then explains that thought their professions as doctors allows them to stay hidden, eventually, they will be discovered as demons and asks Tanjiro if he would allow Nezuko to stay with them as it was much safer than on the battlefield, much to Yushiro's displeasure. He ponders for a bit but Nezuko grabs his hand and knowingly looks at him. Tanjiro smiles and thanks Tamayo for the offer, but he preferred to be by Nezuko's side at all times, never again being separated and thinks of his family. Tamayo accepts his choice, wishing him good luck and bids farewell. Before the siblings leave, Yushiro concedes his earlier statement and calls Nezuko beautiful, much to Tanjiro's pleasure.
Later during that day, Tanjiro's Kasugai Crow continually harasses him to go to south-southeast. While requesting for his crow to be more quiet, the two suddenly hear a loud voice coming from a yellow haired boy, seen on the road begging a girl to marry him.
