Muzan's child form.
A group of adults discuss a special child, gifted with intelligence but cursed with a skin disease that makes him unable to go outside, who they hope to find a cure for. The boy marks his spot in the book he is reading, going to return it to the shelf as Akaza appears to make his report, addressing the youth as Muzan-sama. The disguised Demon asks the Upper Rank if he has found what they discussed, to which Akaza replies that he has not, as he could not find any reliable information about the existence of the Blue Spider Lily.
Muzan's berates Akaza for only managing to kill Kyojuro.
The Upper Rank goes on to assure his leader that he will try his hardest to live up to his expectations, noting that he killed one of the Hashira as ordered. Muzan is unimpressed and proceeds to punish his subordinate, stating that he wishes the entirety of the Demon Slayers to be purged, something that Akaza failed to do when he left the three other Demon Hunters present with the Hashira alive. Muzan further expresses his disappointment in the Upper Rank for taking a blow from a swordsman who wasn't even a Hashira, and dismisses him. Akaza does as commanded, venting his frustration on Kamado Tanjiro's Nichirin Sword and promising to kill the youth the next time they meet.
Back at the Butterfly Mansion, Zenitsu mulls over Tanjiro and Inosuke's sadness due to Kyojuro Rengoku's death, bringing the former some manjū to cheer him up. A distraught Kiyo Terauchi accidentally bashes her head into Zenitsu's, crying out that Tanjiro is missing. An apologetic Kiyo further explains to the disoriented Zenitsu that Shinobu had gotten angry at Tanjiro for training while still injured and he had been instructed to rest. Remembering the extent of his friend's injuries, Zenitsu questions his intelligence.
Kyojuro's father speaks ill of his son.
Elsewhere, Tanjiro thanks Kyojuro's crow for guiding him to the latter's home to fulfill his final wishes, noticing Senjuro Rengoku shortly thereafter. Addressing the surprised youth, Tanjiro asks him if he has heard about his brother's death, and tells him that he was given messages from his brother to relay to him and his father. Senjuro relates that he already knew about the former piece of information and asks Tanjiro if he is alright, as he looks pale.
Before any further discussion can unfold, Rengoku Sr. angrily tells Tanjiro to stop, as he has come to tell them "useless crap". He goes on to say that Kyojuro died because he became a swordsman without having any great talent, and that he was a pathetic fool of a son, to Tanjiro's astonishment.
Shinjuro declares Tanjiro to be a Sun Breathing user.
Shinjuro declares that people's powers are decided upon at the moment of their birth, that only a portion of them have talent, and that the rest are just useless trash. He further declares that Kyojuro was just as he had described, lacking any great talent and thus doomed to have died as he did. He then shouts at his son Senjuro for crying, stating that the funeral is over and asking him how much longer he is going to make that pathetic expression. Angered by all of this, Tanjiro tells Rengoku Sr. to stop talking in this manner. The older man angrily tells Tanjiro to leave, before noticing the youth's earrings, which causes him to drop his alcohol in shock.
Shinjuro explains to Tanjiro that the Sun Breathing is the original Breath.
Rengoku Sr. declares that Tanjiro is a Sun Breathing user, to which the youth responds with confusion. The older man suddenly pins the young Demon Slayer to the ground, causing Senjuro to plead for him to notice Tanjiro's apparent injuries. Rengoku Sr. tells his son to shut up, smacking him across the face. This enrages Tanjiro, causing him to knock the older man off of him. The youth demands to know why Rengoku Sr. is badmouthing his dead son and beating his only remaining son, causing the elder to demand if he is making fun of their family. Tanjiro angrily asks him why he would accuse him of such a thing, to which the Rengoku patriarch responds that it is because he is a Sun Breathing user, noting his earrings and that it was written.
Tanjiro wonders if he is talking about the Hinokami Kagura, but Rengoku Sr. explains that the Sun Breathing is the original Breath, with every subsequent Breath being derived from it. Tanjiro is still confused, not understanding if or how all of this connects with his family history. Rengoku Sr. tells the youth not to get full of himself just because he called him a Sun Breathing user, to which the latter responds by stating that he could never get cocky after what he has been through, and charges at the former in rage, telling him not to speak ill of Kyojuro. Senjuro desperately tries to warn Tanjiro that his father is a former Hashira, but the furious youth ignores this, receiving a punch from Rengoku Sr.
Enraged at the man's badmouthing of Kyojuro, Tanjiro finally lands a headbutt on Shinjuro.
Senjuro pleads his father once again to stop, but this too is ignored as the latter continues to land blows on Tanjiro. The young Demon Hunter wonders to himself why, if the Hinokami Kagura is indeed the Sun Breathing, he couldn't save Kyojuro. Twisting out of the way of one of Rengoku Sr.'s punches, Tanjiro lands a headbutt on the elder's head, much to Senjuro's shock. Later, the young Rengoku family member offers Tanjiro some tea, to which the latter apologizes for headbutting his father, asking if he is alright. Senjuro confirms this, stating that he went out to buy alcohol after he regained consciousness, and thanks Tanjiro for defending his brother, something he couldn't bring himself to do.
Senjuro wonders how his brother's final moments were, prompting Tanjiro to relate to him the entire story. The young Rengoku family member thanks him for doing so, but Tanjiro states he is sorry for not being of any use. Senjuro tells him not to worry about it, something he thinks his brother would have said as well. He goes to retrieve the book his father often reads, the one Kyojuro mentioned to Tanjiro, and returns with it: the Record of the 21st Generation of Flame Hashira. Tanjiro opens it, and the two of them are shocked by its contents.
Tanjiro and Senjuro discover the record has been destroyed.
Senjuro and Tanjiro are shocked to discover that the Flame Hashira's records have been destroyed. He proceeds to apologize to Tanjiro for his father's vandalism of the record, hindering his chances of learning about the Hinokami Kagura. Tanjiro reassures Senjuro that he doesn't need to apologize for anything, even expresses his remorse to failing to protect Kyojuro during the battle. He promises that he will work hard on his own, in order to become a powerful Hashira like Kyojuro, while holding back tears.
Senjuro is left touched by Tanjiro's resolve and expresses his resentment over not being able to succeed his brother as the Flame Hashira, but resolves to find other ways to help people. Tanjiro promises Senjuro that he would headbutt anyone who would badmouth him for his decision, but his offer is sternly declined. Before Tanjiro takes his leave, Senjuro assures Tanjiro he will continue to look into the other Flame Hashira's records while trying to restore the destroyed one, and would send a crow if he discovered something.
Shinjuro cries over Kyojuro's death.
As Tanjiro heads out, Senjuro gifts Tanjiro his brother's hand guard. Tanjiro is initially reluctant to take the guard, but he accepts it due to Senjuro's reassurance. As Senjuro returns to his house, he notices his father, Shinjuro, has returned. Senjuro tries to convey Kyojuro's message for his father, but is met with a spontaneous beration. Once Shinjuro calms down, Senjuro calmly delivers his brother's message to his father, "Please take care of your body." As Senjuro closes the door, Shinjuro immediately thinks of Kyojuro and breaks down in tears.
Hotaru attacks Tanjiro.
Tanjiro can be seen looking visibly exhausted as he heads towards the Butterfly Mansion. Once he arrives in the vicinity, he sees a dark figure standing by the entrance. Upon a closer look, Hotaru Haganezuka can be seen wielding two large knives in his hand with an ominous aura surrounding him. Realizing who it is, Tanjiro is overcome with shock was the man chases after him and is verbally berated for losing his blade. The chapter concludes with Tanjiro climbing up a nearby tree to evade the angry swordsmith.
Four months after the passing of Kyojuro Rengoku, the three boys have been training relentlessly at the Butterfly Mansion while occasionally leaving on individual missions. As Zenitsu goes on solo missions, he becomes less of a whiner whereas Inosuke becomes more reckless. Despite the unforgiving training sessions, Tanjiro remarks that they're tolerable since the three boys can endure it together.
Tengen kidnapping Aoi and Naho.
Following the completion of one of his solo missions, Tanjiro approaches the Butterfly Mansion 
to hear the screams of the young girls. Inside the property, Aoi and Naho scream to be let go after the Sound Hashira, Tengen Uzui begins to take them away while the other girls plea for their freedom. Aoi calls out for Kanao's help to save them, although she initially hesitates on what to do, Kanao chases after Tengen and grabs hold of Aoi and Naho.
Tengen looks at Kanao and tells her to obey her orders, but when she doesn't respond to him, he gets agitated and tells her to say something while calling her a "stuck-up pig." The other girls get scared by his sudden yelling but they manage to muster up their courage to swarm, and stop him from kidnapping Aoi and Naho.
Easily.
Kanao trying to rescue Aoi and Naho.
By this point, Tanjiro arrives inside the property and although he initially gets confused as to whether the girls are crowding him or attacking him, he decides to headbutt Tengen in order to free the girls. However, Tengen stealthily escapes the headbutt, revealing that he previously used to be ninja and would not let anyone land an attack that.
Tanjiro angrily demands that Tengen returns the girls while Kiyo and Sumi insult him with names, causing Tengen to get riled up at their disrespect and demand that they obey him as their "superior officer." However, Tanjiro stubbornly refuses to acknowledge Tengen as his superior causing him to explode with anger. During his fit of rage, Tengen explains that he needs female corps members in order to carry out his mission, yelling that since they aren't Tsuguko, he doesn't need to ask Shinobu for permission.
Tengen announces their journey to the Entertainment District.
Kiyo cries out that Naho isn't a corps member, so Tengen nonchalantly throws her off the roof and decides to only take Aoi. Unwilling to give her up, Tanjiro demands that he gives her up and offers to go in her place. At that moment, Zenitsu and Inosuke arrive to help protect the girls, and they also offer to go on the mission as well.
Tengen ultimately gives in and smacks Aoi on the behind before returning her to the girls. As the group of boys sets off on the mission, the ask Tengen where they're going exactly to which he responds, "the flashiest place in Japan, steeped lust and avarice." ultimately revealing that they are heading towards the Entertainment District.
The chapter begins with Tengen instructing and establishing his status as a superior to the trio of Demon Slayers. He specifically details his status as a 'god' and demands that they "bow and scrape and avert [their] eyes."
Tengen establishes his rules.
Being genuinely intrigued, Tanjiro cheekily falls for his flamboyance and asks what it is that Tengen rules over as a god. Sensing the absurdity of the scenario, Zenitsu concludes that Uzui is a sign of bad news and is also astonished by Tanjiro's naivety.
Tengen explains that he is the 'god of festivals' and upon hearing this, Inosuke brazenly introduces himself as the 'god of the mountain' and introduces himself as a fellow, leaving Tengen disgusted.
Tengen instructs the group to follow him to a wisteria-crested House where they will discuss their plans and within an instant, he sprints a large distance till he can barely be seen, leaving the group to chase after him in a panic. Once they arrive at the home, Tengen informs the group to be on the lookout for someone he can marry, which infuriates Zenitsu. He angrily tells Tengen to stop screwing around and to stop using members of the corps to be his matchmaker. Tengen blows up and yells that he doesn't need a matchmaker since he's already married, and that they're searching for his wife who failed to respond to his letters. Zenitsu doesn't believe him and tells Tengen to stop telling his "fantasies" causing Tengen to angrily wack him in the face with the piles of letters.
Tanjiro begins to sift through the letters, noticing the large quantity and comments that she must be a fast writer, to which Tengen clarifies that the large quantity is due to the fact that he has three wives. After hearing this, Zenitsu's head explodes with rage thinking that Tengen is lying, and he demands to know how he could have three wives. Tengen gets angry at his remarks and punches Zenitsu in the stomach with such force, knocking him unconscious.
Inosuke getting punched by Tengen.
Tanjiro begins to ask how they plan on sneaking into the district, leaving Tengen to explain that they will be disguised. His wives, which are kunoichi, were originally stationed there after he failed to find any leads as a customer, but after they narrowed down the possible locations of where the Demon might be, they lost communication. Overhearing the situation, Inosuke bluntly asks what if the wives are already dead, to which Tengen promptly punches him in the stomach, knocking him unconscious.
Within the Entertainment District, a majority of the workers are individuals who were sold into the business due to poverty and debt. As a courtesan, their job is to appeal and entertain customers so they can eventually find a wealthy man that's willing to buy their freedom. The highest classification of a courtesan is an oiran, who is considered to be the most artistic, beautiful, and educated and is thus only reserved for the wealthiest of customers.
The boys disguised as girls.
As the group finally arrives, Tengen uses his charming looks to try to give away the boys who are disguised as girls, and is successfully able to give Tanjiro away to the Tokito House. Tengen proceeds down the street with the other two boys in tow, with Zenitsu seething with anger at the fact that Tengen is proudly flaunting his visuals. Inosuke and Tengen notice a courtesan precession coming towards them on the street, and learn that the orian named Koinatsu is on her way to greet a suitor. Zenitsu notices the orian and angrily yells at Tengen demanding to know if that's his wife as well, earning him a punch in the face.
A woman approaches Tengen and asks him if he is looking for a house and offers to take Inosuke into the Ogimoto House, to which Tengen accepts. The chapter concludes with Zenitsu fearfully realizing that he is the only one left with Tengen.
The chapter starts off with two women at the Ogimoto House clapping for joy at how beautiful Inosuke is after removing "her" makeup. They become motivated to educate him and transform him to become the most popular orian within the district. Meanwhile in the Kyogoku House, Zenitsu is in the middle of putting an emotional performance with a shamisen after being abandoned by Tengen Uzui, and at the Tokito House, Tanjiro is assisting in doing household chores.
Koinatsu arrives at her room.
The staff ask Tanjiro to carry the oiran's belongings up to her room to which he happily complies. When he arrives at the room, he discovers two young girls gossiping inside and overhears them talking about "ashinuke". He asks them what it is, and the girls explain that ashinuke is when a courtesan runs off with a customer without paying off their debts. They go on to mention the rumor that Suma was the most recent courtesan that had ran away, which catches Tanjiro's attention. However before he can question them further, Koinatsu walks into the room and tells the girls to stop gossiping, and thanks Tanjiro for carrying her belongings.
Tanjiro meets Koinatsu.
She gives him a piece of Ame Honpo candy to express her gratitude and Tanjiro decides to ask her if the rumor regarding Suma was true. Koinatsu looks taken aback by the sudden question and asks him why he's asking her, Tanjiro momentarily panics and lies saying that Suma is his sister. His extreme honesty causes him to show a sour facial expression whenever he lies, and he ends up frightening the girls as well as Koinatsu. She again questions Tanjiro if he was sold into the house just like his "sister", causing him to uncomfortably lie that he was in fact sold and was exchanging letters with Suma. Koinatsu reluctantly tells Tanjiro that she did not believe Suma would run away, however when they discovered her diary in her desk, she had written that she was planning on running away. She also reveals that there has been no new information regarding if she had gotten caught, or if she managed to escape.
Tanjiro begins to speculate that it could be the Demon that was creating the facade that Suma had run away, and might possibly be responsible for implanting the diary. He then prays for her safety and promises to himself that he will find a way to help her. Elsewhere in the district, Tengen is seen on top of the roof observing the activity of the public. He fails to notice any unusual activity, and can't help but have a bad feeling on the lack of action, and proceeds to speculate that the Demon must be strong due to its ability to hide its presence.
Inosuke tries to listen for information.
Back at the Ogimoto House, Inosuke is starting to investigate the whereabouts of Makio and overhears two women conversing in front of Makio's room. The women begin to gossip that Makio was feeling unwell and had not left her room the whole day. Inosuke begins to speculate on the information and proceeds down the hall, however he becomes irritated at having to wear the uncomfortable kimono during the hot weather and recalls Tengen's threats. Before the boys had seperated, Tengen had threatened him to not strip or speak due to his deep voice, making it harder for Inosuke to gather information.
Inside Makio's room, an ominous voice is seen questioning a woman who she was sending letters to. A large obi-like Demon is then seen holding the woman hostage, the Demon calls the woman by her name revealing the hostage to be Makio.
While being held hostage by the Obi Demon, Makio tries to formulate a plan to try to escape. However the Demon senses Inosuke snooping in the hallway and decides to make an escape. Inosuke senses the change in the atmosphere, and rushes into the room. He discovers the room is destroyed and senses the Demon hiding in the ceiling. As the Demon tries to escape, Inosuke begins to give chase and rushes down the hallway.
Inosuke chases the Demon.
As he prepares to turn the hallway, he decides to punch the wall in order to pull the Demon out. However when he swings, a customer comes into the clearing and unknowingly gets punched into the wall. The staff look on in horror as Inosuke looks around to try to find the Demon, but to his frustration, he loses sight of it and blames the customer.
In the Kyogoku House, Zenitsu calms down after his emotional performance, and begins to search for Hinatsuru. Due to the fact that the staff is mourning the manager's death, he has had trouble collecting any information on her whereabouts. Zenitsu decides to use his advanced sense of hearing in order to listen to try to find any information, in doing so he overhears a girl quietly sobbing and rushes to find her.
Warabihime appears behind Zenitsu.
When he arrives, he discovers the room is destroyed and the young girl disheveled in the middle of it. He approaches her but she begins to sob again, causing Zenitsu to frantically try and comfort her. As he's kneeling on the ground, Zenitsu gets the chills as he senses something approach him from behind, the oiran of the house Warabihime, glares down at him and coldly demands what business he has in her room. Without turning around, Zenitsu recognizes the sound that she's giving off is not human, and realizes that she is the Demon that the Demon Slayers have been searching for.
Warabihime angrily repeats her question after Zenitsu fails to respond, and the other girls of the house explain that "she's" new to the house. Zenitsu attempts to apologize and explain that he was checking on the girl, but this angers Warabihime who rudely calls Zenitsu "ugly and creepy" leaving him shocked. Warabihime looks around to she the room is still a mess and pulls the girl who was crying by the ear, causing her to yell out in pain. The girl apologizes for failing to clean the room, but Warabihime continues to harm the girl, causing her to yell out in agony. Unable to put up with the abuse, the Zenitsu grabs Warabihime by the arm, demanding that she lets go of the girl.
Two nights before the Demon Slayers arrived at the Entertainment District, the manager of the Kyogoku House, Omitsu, holds a meeting with the oiran of her household. She explains to Warabihime that she has to restrain herself from bullying the other courtesans of the house, to which Warabihime feigns her innocence. Omitsu expresses her frustration at having ignored her behavior explaining that she's gone too far, but Warabihime guilts her by mentioning she brings the money into the household.
Omitsu confronts Warabihime.
Omitsu becomes nervous as she mentions a tale she heard from an elder when she was a child, she explains that the elder had recalled a courtesan who was extremely beautiful but had a rotten personality. The courtesan was the oiran of their household and had been around since the elder was a child and was eerily similar to the oiran the elder saw when she was an adult. Coincidentally, the oiran's names both ended in "hime" and had a nasty glare when they were displeased. As Omitsu continues to elaborate, she notices the similarities between the elder's description, and Warabihime. However before she questions the validity of her race, Warabihime transforms into her original appearance as Daki and pulls Omitsu from the house.
As the fly into the night sky, Daki eerily remarks that the people around her had managed to survive by remaining silent on the atrocities they've witnessed, until tonight. Omitsu fearfully brandishes a knife revealing her intentions to kill Daki, however she berates Omitsu for being more stupid than she believed and bids her goodbye before dropping her to her death.
Muzan praises Daki.
Daki nonchalantly lands on a nearby rooftop and struts away as the citizens discover Omitsu dead on the ground. When she returns to her room, discovers Muzan Kibutsuji awaiting and humbly greets him. Muzan comments on her appearance and speculates she's eaten a large amount of humans, he proudly congratulates her and cautions her to not act recklessly. Daki complies and receives information regarding the possible arrival of the Demon Slayers, and is encouraged by Muzan to become even stronger and crueler than she was before.
The flashback ends and returns to the present situation of Zenitsu confronting Warabihime. She becomes angry and slams him into the wall, rendering him unconscious. She openly voices her disgust and demands that he never touch her again and eerily remarks that she will administer harsh discipline. The commotion causes Omitsu's husband to rush over and apologize for 'Zenko's' actions, but begs her to forgive him as they prepare for customers. Warabihime has a sudden change of character and apologizes to the manager while he quickly orders for her room to be cleaned.
As Warabihime leaves the room, she has her doubts about Zenitsu and realizes that he isn't an ordinary human, and might possibly be a member of the Demon Slayers. In her cleaned room, she can be seen ominously laughing to herself as she openly welcomes the idea of Demon Slayers arriving to the district, promising she'll eat all of them. The chapter ends with Tanjiro looking into the night uneasily, as he comments on the "dark and murky" smell the town has at night.
The chapter begins with the manager being informed of Zenko's sudden disappearance from the Kyogoku House. The staff member explains that "she" had disappeared after being left to rest, however the mention of Zenko angers the manager and he tells the staff member to forget about Zenko. The manager chases her out before expressing his frustration at having to submit to Warabihime's desires.
Tengen informs the boys that Zenitsu has disappeared.
Elsewhere on a rooftop, Inosuke can be seen explaining the demon he saw in the Ogimoto House, to Tanjiro. His exotic description and excitement, worries Tanjiro and he tells him to calm down until Tengen and Zenitsu arrive for a meeting. Tengen stealthily arrives undetected proclaims that Zenitsu will not be arriving, he also mentions that he might've put the boys in immediate danger.
Inosuke explains the Demon Slayer Ranks.
Tengen tells Inosuke and Tanjiro that they must leave the district before the Upper Rank Demon makes their move, and announces he will be continuing the mission alone. Tanjiro tries to argue against his decision, however Tengen quickly leaves as fast as he arrived. Tanjiro begins to wonder if they aren't trustworthy due to being members of the lowest Demon Slayer rank, but Inosuke interrupts to inform him that they're climbed the ranks. He flexes his hand, and shows Tanjiro the Kanoe rank which appears, telling their status. Confused by the revelation, Inosuke explains to Tanjiro that following the Final Selection, their hands were marked with a wisteria crest. Tanjiro is left slightly embarrassed at not knowing how to check, but Inosuke promptly tells him to cheer up.
Tanjiro gets back on track and tells Inosuke he will meet him outside the Ogimoto House once night falls, claiming that he wants to finish investigating the Tokito House before he leaves, which angers Inosuke. He pinches Tanjiro by the cheek and tells him to follow him at that moment, but Tanjiro explains that there might be a secret passage hidden beneath the household that might lead to the Demon. He tells Inosuke that he thinks Tengen's wives are still alive as well as Zenitsu, and he asks him to comply in order to successfully save them. Inosuke smiles and lets Tanjiro know that he was thinking the exact same thing, and agrees to the plan.
Daki appears before Koinatsu.
Back at the Tokito House, Koinatsu has finished with her preparations and is visited by Tanjiro. He arrives without his disguise and informs Koinatsu that he is leaving the house and asks her to pass on his payment for the meals he's had. She asks why he's dressed that way, and explains that he's actually a boy while apologizing to her, but to his surprise, she claims she knew all along and wondered what he was up to. He tells her that he hopes to save the individuals who have disappeared from the house, and she expresses her relief while also saying she'll be leaving as well.
They wish each other well and say their goodbyes before Tanjiro leaves the room, but when Koinatsu hears a sound, she turns around to discover Daki standing right behind her. The chapter concludes with Tanjiro smelling the arrival of the Upper Rank Demon.
The ninju delivering Inosuke's Nichirin Blades.
At the Ogimoto House, Inosuke can be seen complaining as he waits for Tanjiro to arrive. Since their time to meet is long overdue, Inosuke becomes fed up and decides to begin the mission alone. He jumps with such force that he bursts through the ceiling, and calls for the mice to bring his swords. These mice are Tengen's servants who have been especially trained to act on missions. As Inosuke changes and makes his leave, a member of the staff can be seen with horrified expression as she sees Inosuke with his boars mask.
Tengen threatens the manager.
Over at the Kyogoku House, Omitsu's husband is seen holding a kimono in his hand. In just moments, Tengen appears in the room and holds a kunai to his throat, demanding to know the whereabouts of Hinatsuru and Zenko. The man quickly reveals that Zenko had suddenly disappeared and that Hinatsuru was sick, therefore she was sent to a low-end brothel. Tengen questions the man further, and asks who thinks is responsible for causing the trouble within the house, however the man begins to hyperventilate. Tengen reassures him that he can be trusted and will exact revenge on the individual responsible.
The man envisions his deceased wife and informs Tengen that its Warabihime who's causing the problems, he also informs him that she has the north room "where sunlight never falls." The man stops talking for a moment, and quickly turns around however by that point Tengen has already left. The man is left alone in the room, holding his wife's bloody kimono. When Tengen arrives to the room, he's discovered that the Demon is not there and is probably out hunting. He quickly leaves to search for Hinatsuru and swears he will return to defeat the Demon with his own hands.
Daki appears in Koinatsu's room.
Elsewhere, Tanjiro has discovered Daki within Koinatsu's room, as she attempts to kidnap her within her obi. Daki informs him that she will not be eating him since he is "dirty and old", meaning that only a Hashira will suffice her appetite. Tanjiro yells at her to release Koinatsu, however his demands irritate Daki and she lashes out, throwing him from the building. Tanjiro is left stunned from her immense speed and power, but he manages to regain his composure and stands back up on his feet. He begins to analyze the situation and realizes that her obi has a special power that can swallow people whole.
At that moment, Daki climbs out of the window amazed that Tanjiro is still alive. Tanjiro apologizes to Nezuko after realizing one of the shoulder straps is broken, he tells her that he has to leave her and warns her to not come out of the box unless her life is in danger. He initiates his attack against Daki by using the Water Breathing, Fourth Form: Striking Tide, Turbulent to attempt to slash at her obi. He successfully manages to perform an aerial attack against Daki, and slices off the end of the obi that was holding Koinatsu captive. The chapter ends with Daki eerily proclaiming that Tanjiro makes her sick and compares him to a dying rat, before expressing that she likes his demeanor.
Tengen's arrival at the Kirimise ward.
After arriving at one of the Kirimise houses, Tengen is seen caring for his wife, Hinatsuru. She tells him to leave her to go investigate the loud sounds heard within the district, but before he can do so, she apologizes to him for failing to complete the mission.
When she initially arrived at Yoshiwara, Hinatsuru was placed in the Kyogoku House to investigate. She realized that the Warabihime was the demon but could not make any haste decisions. In an attempt to escape and avoid suspicion, Hinatsuru drank poison and pretended to fall ill. However, she was gifted an obi by the oiran to spy on her and ultimately kill her if she did anything suspicious.
Tengen comforts Hinatsuru and tells her she did well during the mission, revealing the defeated obi in the background. He advises her to leave the district as soon as the antidote takes effect to which she agrees and they embrace.
Tengen uses Roar to enter the cavern
As Tengen leaves the houses and heads back to the battlefield, he tries to listen for the sounds of the Demon and hears the vibrations coming from an underground cavern. He pulls out his blades and uses Sound Breathing, First Form: Roar to slam onto the floor causing a large explosion, which can be heard by Daki in the distance.
She questions Tanjiro as to how many Demon Slayers are in the district but he refuses to tell her. She tries to strike a deal with him that if he answers her question, she will spare him while simultaneously trying to intimidate him. Daki mentions Tanjiro's chipped sword as as the fact that he has started shaking again, causing him to question his credibility as a Demon Slayer.
He begins to discredit his ability to perform the Water Breathing, compared to Sakonji and Giyu. Tanjiro mentions that he needs to rely on the Hinokami Kagura in order to land powerful blows, but lacks in the ability to perform multiple strikes with it. However, he regains his focus and encourages himself that his training should pay off, he mentally envisions Kyojuro's voice telling him to "Keep [his] heart burning" and manages to perform Hinokami Kagura: Raging Sun to block Daki's obi.
Daki notices the change in his fighting style as Tanjiro cuts off a large section of her obi, as she tries to analyze this change, Tanjiro suddenly bursts towards her. He swings his blade down using Hinokami Kagura: Flame Dance to try and decapitate her, but she narrowly avoids it. As Tanjiro tries to attack her again, Daki gains the upper hand and tries to decapitate Tanjiro with her obi, however Tanjiro utilizes Hinokami Kagura: Fake Rainbow to escape.
Daki is left confused, trying to locate where Tanjiro has disappeared to, but within seconds Tanjiro appears behind her and utilizes Hinokami Kagura: Fire Wheel to attack her once again. The chapter concludes with Tanjiro's blade making contact with Daki's neck.
Following his sneak attack from the previous chapter, Daki manages to quickly deflect Tanjiro's attack and sends him flying into the ground. He tries to continue his attack, however he is left exhausted from his use of the Hinokami Kagura and has trouble getting up. As Daki quickly approaches, Tanjiro manages to use the recovery breathing technique to overcome his technique and narrowly avoids Daki's attack. He goes on the offense and attacks Daki, however her obi gets in the way preventing him from defeating her, leaving him with no choice but to raise his body temperature even higher.
Tanjiro recalls an interaction he had with Kiyo Terauchi at the Butterfly Mansion. She begins to worry over Tanjiro's uncontrollable fever, and tells him that she needs to inform Shinobu. Tanjiro tries to reassure that he's fine and to not tell Shinobu, however Kiyo mentions that his fever has been at 100.4 degrees over several days, and it could mean something is wrong. He confesses to her that he's been training with the Hinokami Kagura in order to improve his skills and begs her to hold on a bit before reporting to Shinobu, Kiyo reluctantly agrees but tells him that she will only wait a bit.
Tanjiro uses Hinokami Kagura after remembering his comrades.
Back in the battle against Daki, Tanjiro begins to gasp as the Hinokami Kagure begins to take a toll on his body, but he refuses to let up in order to protect the people of the district. He uses his determination to promise that he won't allow Daki to take another life, and cause people to go through the sadness he and his comrades had to experience. His breath fumes out from his mouth as he prepares to attack Daki yet again.
Inosuke discovers the underground tunnel.
Earlier at the Ogimoto House, a member of the staff can be seen frantically approaching other women, as she claims to have seen a monster. The women are left confused at the woman's unusual claim and she explains that she saw a boar monster destroying the ceiling and the floor. Elsewhere in the house, Inosuke can be seen cackling as he discovers a hole leading to a "Demon Nest." He proudly yells at the hole to prepare itself before trying to dive in headfirst. After realizing that only his head fits, he takes it as a challenge and begins to snap his body, claiming he can dislocate the joints in his body. All while frightening the daylights out of the staff that's observing him. He manages to slither through the opening, and travels through the tunnel until he reaches the main cavern.
The women trapped in the obi.
Once he arrives, he discovers the long trails of the obi draped throughout the cavern. As he takes a closer look, he can see multiple people being held captive within the obi and discovers Zenitsu knocked out among them as well. As he tries to wake him up, the obi begins to move demanding to know why Inosuke is there. The chapter concludes with Inosuke being disgusted by the worm-like obi.
Inosuke begins his assault against the Obi by slicing sections of it while simultaneously insulting it. The women who were held captive begin to slip out from the sections, causing the obi to panic at the situation. The obi analyzes Inosuke's natural abilities and has trouble formulating a plan, however Daki's conscious takes control, and she orders the obi to capture him alive. As Inosuke prepares to slice another section, the obi suddenly becomes more elastic, and folds along Inosuke's blade.
Inosuke attacks the obi.
Before the obi can attack him, Inosuke gains the upper hand by maneuvering to perform Beast Breathing, Sixth Fang: Palisade Bite, however the obi manages to distract him. The obi mentions Inosuke's failure at protecting the individuals he's freed, claiming that it can easily just swallow them up again. It proceeds to move towards the unconscious individuals, however a Kunai flies in out of nowhere, causing the obi to retract.
Makio and Suma escape the obi.
Two women appear holding Kunai and agree with Inosuke's description of the "worm-like" obi, and begin to attack it. They explain to Inosuke that they're there to help him and will protect the others from the obi. Inosuke reluctantly agrees but asks them who they are, to which they reveal they're Tengen's missing wives, Suma and Makio.
Makio begins to scold Suma who sulks after revealing she was the first one who was captured, she also begins to cry as she realizes that they can't help everyone and are most likely going to die. The obi seems pleased by Suma's pessimistic attitude and questions who it should eat first, but before it can get the chance to attack, Zenitsu quickly attacks the obi. Amazed by his skill, Inosuke comments that he probably shouldn't wake Zenitsu up and Suma and Makio question his identity.
Tengen arrives in the cavern.
The obi is left amazed by Zenitsu's speed but tries to understand the sounds it heard, it specifically mentions that there were two sounds like thunder. One sound came from Zenitsu, but when the obi finally recognizes the source of the second sound, the ceiling explodes and breaks down.
Suma looks up into the distance and a silhouette can be seen from the individual who dropped into the hole. Tengen brandishes his blades as he takes a deep breath, and within seconds, slashes the obi within his vicinity. Makio turns around and calls out to Tengen, who apologizes for taking too long. The chapter concludes with Tengen promising that things are "about to get real flashy."
Makio recalls her past as Tengen arrives at the large cavern. As a young adult, Makio lived the lifestyle of a kunoichi and was often taught to survive instead of try to accomplish the mission. These ideals were again reiterated into her mindset when she married Tengen, who would tell his wives to always prioritize their lives and return to him alive. He would make sure to let them know that he would take responsibility to protect the public, after protecting them. Makio would often question if his morals were right, however Hinatsuru would reassure her that wanting to live was not immoral.
Tengen encouraging his wives.
Back in the cavern, Tengen greets his wives by patting them on the head and compliments the great work they put in, causing them to tear up as Suma holds on to him and cries. Inosuke calls out to the ""god of festivities" and gets mad at him for allowing the obi to escape, but Tengen loses his temper and defends his wives saying that they saved the people that were trapped. Makio interrupts him to say that they need to leave immediately before things get worse, and he quickly instructs everyone to follow him.
Daki transforms as her obi returns.
Now on the rooftops, Tengen sprints towards the battle field as Inosuke and Zenitsu struggle to catch up. In the middle of the battle between Daki and Tanjiro, the obi comes flying and unexpectedly enters Daki's body. Tanjiro realizes that the obi is returning to Daki's main body and tries to attack her, but she quickly disappears. She reappears on a nearby rooftop as her hair turns white, she squeals with delights as she learns there's a Hashira within the district. At that moment, a bystander discovers Tanjiro acting suspiciously on the street and tells him to stop fighting in front of his shop. Daki overhears the man and becomes enraged by his comment.
Tanjiro becomes enraged by Daki's actions
She lashes out a flurry of attacks on the buildings around her and ends up cutting off the man's arm in the process, she also manages to kill other bystanders in the nearby houses. Tanjiro sees the bloodshed nearby and tells the man to tie a tourniquet around his arm, despite bleeding heavily himself.
Daki begins to walk away after destroying the houses, but Tanjiro tells her he won't allow her to get away with it. Daki cockingly tells him to stop speaking to her since he is just another rotten corpse. The chapter concludes with Tanjiro's heart beginning to beat louder and louder as his eyes fill with rage.
Tanjiro recalls a letter that was addressed to him by Shinjuro Rengoku, who admits that he had wronged him. In the letter he thanks him for mourning Kyojuro's death, as well as for befriending Senjuro and proceeds to express his embarrassment for his behavior when they first met. He explained that he was wallowing in sorrow over the death of his wife and incompetence as a Hashira that he turned to alcohol. Despite his lack of presence as a father, Kyojuro had proven himself to be a better son that he was by managing to become a Hashira, even after Shinjuro had refused to continue teaching him. Shinjuro writes in his letter that Tanjiro is gifted with a power and is destined for greatness as seen from the Demon Slayer Mark he was born with. However, Tanjiro clarifies that Shinjuro is wrong because he wasn't born with the mark.
He recalls getting the mark when he was protecting his younger brother from a falling brazier, and it then changed in appearance during the Final Selection. Unlike his father who was born with the mark, Tanjiro simply acquired it meaning he wasn't a chosen one, nonetheless he refuses to back down.
Daki sees the vision of a Mysterious Swordsman from Muzan's memories.
As Daki walks away from him, Tanjiro quickly grabs her and narrowly cuts her neck, but she manages to avoid the attack and back away from him. She loses her foot in the process, but her regeneration skills allow her to develop a new one within seconds. Tanjiro notices her regeneration and asks Daki why she steals people's lives and ruins them, his tone of voice comes off as familiar to Daki and she envisions a different swordsman before her. Although she doesn't recognize the swordsman, Daki realizes that she is envisioning Muzan's memories. Tanjiro continues to question her reasoning and taunts her with the fact that she was once a human who endured hardships as well.
Daki's Blood Demon Art.
Daki becomes enraged by Tanjiro's comments and smashes her first into the roof tile, demanding that he stop rambling about the past since she is now Demon. Daki proceeds to glorify the privileges of being a Demon, seemingly mocking the circumstances that humans face. Having heard enough from her, Tanjiro approaches Daki to make an attack but she defends herself using her Blood Demon Art: Eight-Layered Obi Slash to keep him from closing in.
Her confidence grows as Daki believes that she is now untouchable due to the fact that she has returned back to her original form, she bids Tanjiro farewell and begins to think about going after the Hashira. However, Tanjiro utilizes the Hinokami Kagura: Burning Bones, Summer Sun to burn the obi blocking his path. Daki is left stunned by her wounds and inability to regenerate to the point where she begins to shake, and is left to defend herself from Tanjiro's flurry of attacks. He closes in and swings his blade to decapitate her, but she continues to resist as her neck transforms into an obi, refusing to be cut.
Tanjiro’s blade can been seen struggling as it tries to cut through Daki’s obi-like neck. The resisting cloth forces Tanjiro to abandon his attack and escape before Daki has the chance to fight back. However when he tries to recollect his thoughts, Daki charges towards him and tries to slash him. Tanjiro analyzes her movements and has realized that he can see her in slow motion, giving him the advantage. As her wild obi attacks him from multiple directions, Tanjiro manages to pin them all in a single spot and proceeds to charge at her while cutting away at the obi.
Tanjiro slashing Daki's obi with Hinokami Kagura.
His flames burn the obi away, and within seconds he comes in to a close proximity to Daki. However just when he is about to decapitate her, Tanjiro envisions his sister Hanako desperately begging her brother to breathe. In that moment Tanjiro loses his focus and begins gasping for air after nearly passing his physical limitations. He collapses onto the ground, finally feeling the pain that he had been suppressing, and his eyes begin to bleed. It is revealed that he had been acting on anger and had been using his "life force" to surpass his limitations, however his sister was able to warn him before he could sustain any life-threatening damage.
Hanako trying to warn Tanjiro.
Daki glares down at Tanjiro and berates him for his weakness as a human, she mocks his injuries and slowly approaches him to deliver the final blow. Before she can deliver the attack, a leg comes down and kicks Daki hard behind rupturing her head. Nezuko can be seen boiling with rage as she stands between Tanjiro, whos struggling to breathe on the ground, and Daki. Nezuko recalls the memories of when her family was slaughtered on that snowy night and her rage grows stronger, as she prepares to fight the Upper Rank Demon. Daki's head and face begins to regenerate as she glares holes into Nezuko, she recognizes her as the Demon Muzan Kibutsuji had told her about. Nezuko's face begins to transform as her infinite anger begins to push her forward, leaving the reader wondering what would happen in Nezuko's case, begin a Demon with no physical limitations.
Back when Muzan Kibutsuji arrived at the Kyogoku House to see Daki, he had told her to find the Demon who had escaped his grasp like Tamayo. He identifies her as having a hemp patterned kimono as well as a checkerboard obi and tells Daki that she is his last hope to catch Nezuko. Now in the present, Daki promises that she will kill Nezuko and lay her down at Muzan's feet as proof. Nezuko faces Daki and charges to once again try to kick off Daki's head, however Daki is able to cut off Nezuko's leg using her obi. While Nezuko looks down at her bleeding thigh, Daki uses the opportunity to knock her off of the roof, and blast her into a nearby building.
Tanjiro envisions Takeo.
As the two Demons are fighting, Tanjiro falls unconscious and envisions his brother, Takeo. In his dream, Takeo mentions how Tanjiro and Nezuko are very alike when they're kind and angry, and goes on to recall an instance when he saw Nezuko get angry. He explains how fearful he was when he saw her and was worried about her lack of concern for herself, mentioning that within an instant, she could've lost everything she holds dear.
Nezuko transforms.
Back in the fight, Daki jumps down from the rooftop and approaches Nezuko whose trapped underneath a pile of rubble. She mocks her for being weak and being a half developed Demon, since she hasn't eaten any Demons. Daki continues to provoke her and cockily says that she will not fight Nezuko anymore, and will simply leave her trapped and expose her to the sun instead. However before Daki can say anything else, Nezuko comes out from the rubble and regenerates her leg in an instant, leaving Daki stunned at her abilities. Nezuko proceeds to instantaneously regenerate her arm, which was cut off as well, leaving Daki uneasy as she realizes that her regenerative abilities are on par with an Upper Rank Demon. Nezuko's body transforms as she breaks her bamboo muzzle, a horn grows out of the right side of her forehead and her body also becomes covered in ivy-like demon crests. Daki gets more intimidated by Nezuko's change in aura and she tries to defend herself from one of her kicks, successfully cutting it off with her obi. However before she can cut Nezuko's head, Daki is still smashed into the ground by Nezuko's kick.
Daki is shocked as Nezuko's leg pierces through her body, pinning her into the ground. She tries to make sense of how Nezuko could've attacked her with the leg she had just sliced off, but lately realizes that Nezuko had instantly regenerated her leg within that moment, admitting that Nezuko's regenerative abilities are greater than her own.
Nezuko begins to slip into a state of mania following her transformation. As Tanjiro still remains in his state of unconsciousness, Takeo desperately taps him on his back begging him for help. He tells Tanjiro to please wake up and help Nezuko who isn't acting like herself anymore, forcing Tanjiro to awaken with concern.
As Daki remains pinned on the ground, she uses her obi to try to free herself from Nezuko's hold. Her obi effectively severs multiple limbs from Nezuko's body but before she gets a chance to scoop them up, Nezuko's severed hand grips onto her obi. Her limbs remain connected by her unusually solidified blood, with some of the blood falling onto Daki. In an instant, Daki is set on fire by the blood causing her to scream out in agony.
Nezuko's limbs wind back to reattach to her body and they self cauterize each cut, she proceeds to forcefully stomp down on Daki's head causing it to erupt in flames. Nezuko continues to stomp multiple times on her head before she kicks forcefully kicks Daki through a nearby building, and into the one behind it. As she follows Daki to continue her assault, Nezuko comes across an injured woman who stares at Nezuko with fear, as she tends to her bleeding wound. Nezuko falls into a trance and charges into the home towards the woman, as she fails to suppress her hunger for blood.
Tanjiro tries to restrain Nezuko.
Out of nowhere, Tanjiro jumps on top of Nezuko and uses his blade to act as a muzzle in order to restrain her. He yells at her to fight the hunger and encourages her to be strong, but she lashes out at him and scratches him on the face to try to escape. He apologizes to her for making her fight after smelling the blood that spilled from her injuries, he proceeds to reassure her that her big brother is now there to protect her and that she can now heal herself. Nezuko manages to regain her footing and she jumps through the ceiling with Tanjiro on her back, causing an intense amount of damage to the house. As Tanjiro struggles to restrain his sister, the walls of the room are seemingly slashed as Daki barges into the room with her burned face.
Daki's burnt appearance.
She is seen teething with anger as she is forced to regenerate her burned body, and angrily approaches the siblings. Tanjiro becomes conflicted on what to do as he realizes that there are nearby bystanders he needs to protect, but also needs to defend Daki's attack without releasing Nezuko. As Tanjiro makes his decision to protect the public, Tengen Uzui suddenly appears before him and expresses his surprise at Nezuko's "flashy" demonization.
Tengen goes on to comically berate Tanjiro for speaking highly of Nezuko's ability to restrain herself back at the Ubuyashiki estate, despite him struggling to restrain her now. Daki sees Tengen and excitedly reacts to Hashira arriving before her, but is coldly told to shut up. Tengen tells her to scram and says that she is too weak to be an Upper Rank Demon.
The chapter concludes with Daki's decapitated head falling onto her lap leaving her stunned as to what had just transpired.
Nezuko cries after Tanjiro's lullaby makes her come to her senses.
Tanjiro is left shocked by Tengen's swift victory over Daki, but the Sound Hashira reminds him that the fight isn't over, as his sister is still out of control. Tanjiro struggles to restrain her, with Tengen suggesting he sing her a lullaby to put her to sleep. At that moment, Nezuko regains her footing and jumps out of the window, taking her brother with her as they continue to struggle. Realizing his words aren't reaching her, Tanjiro asks his mother what he should do, and then remembers Tengen's earlier advice to sing Nezuko a lullaby.
He begins to sing her a song that their mother had sung in the past, and while her actions remain unchanged at first, his lullaby soon reaches her. Nezuko remembers asking their mother about the song when she was a child, causing her to break down in tears. Nezuko comes to her senses and changes from her advanced demonized form back into her regular child-like state, promptly falling asleep. Tanjiro lets out a relieved sigh as he successfully holds Nezuko in his lap.
Daki begins to throw a tantrum over Tengen denying her Upper Rank status.
Back in the house, Daki screams at Tengen for cutting her head off, and he responds by telling her to die quietly. The enraged Demon reminds him that he had denied her Upper Rank status, which he affirms, but she proceeds to insist her status, much to his annoyance.
Emerging from her body, Daki's brother confronts Tengen.
To the Hashira's astonishment, Daki begins to throw a tantrum and cry, and he notes that she has been talking for far too long when she should have showed signs of dying. Still throwing her tantrum, Daki calls out to "Gyutaro" to save her and a male Demon begins to emerge from her body. Tengen senses the danger and attempts to immediately attack the two, but his blades hit nothing but air as the Demons disappear from his sight. On the other side of the room behind Tengen, Gyutaro comforts Daki, asking that she at least try to reattach her own head. Tengen wonders why Daki is still alive after being beheaded, as well as the presence of the new Demon, who he comments as having great reaction speed. Gyutaro tells Daki to heal her burn, complimenting her good looks, and wounds Tengen when he attempts to attack them again.
Gyutaro compliments Tengen's attempt to attack him as well as his success at blocking his attack. He reveals that he was intending to kill Tengen with that attack and eerily prepares to him on in a battle.
Within the Entertainment District there are men known as "gyu's" or barkers, who work to attract customers to enter the brothels. Gyutaro worked as one of these men, and eventually used the word "gyu" as a part of his new name. Inside one of the brothels, Gyutaro and Tengen are about to engage in combat, but before they do so, Gyutaro begins to analyze Tengen's appearance. He comments about his nice face, good skin, and height, mentioning that he must attract a lot of attention from women. Gyutaro begins to eerily scratch at his face until he begins to bleed and voices his jealousy over Tengen's looks.
In the corner of the room, Daki can be seen crying as she whines at Gyutaro to kill the other Demon Slayers who burned her as well. She proceeds to tell him that they "ganged up" on her and she tried her hardest to kill her, causing Gyutaro to seethe with anger. Using two large sickles, he creates a flurry of large arc-like slashes aiming them towards Tengen.
Elsewhere in the district, Tanjiro can be seen carrying Nezuko as he rushes to put her away to safety. He looks up into the sky and sees the sickles return back in the direction that they came like a boomerang; he becomes concerned when he smells Tengen's blood and rushes to return to help. At that moment, Inosuke and Zenitsu can be seen prancing towards him as they comically announce their arrival. Tanjiro quickly informs them to help Tengen and Inosuke reassures him that he's going to be "reeeeal" flashy, before pardoning Tanjiro to put Nezuko in her box.
Gyutaro using his Blood Demon Art.
Back at the brothel, Gyutaro seethes with jealousy after witnessing how "cool" Tengen looks by protecting the bystanders within the home, causing Tengen to brag about his appearance and marriage to three women. Gyutaro pauses in astonishment before furiously scratching his face after hearing of Tengen's polygamy, he proceeds to use his Blood Demon Art: Flying Blood Sickles to try to kill the Hashira, but Tengen manages to block it. A large explosion causes the floor beneath Tengen to give in, and he manages to escape by dropping down one floor. However, Gyutaro commands his sickles to turn, and they come straight for Tengen.
Daki fights alongside Gyutaro.
By this point, Tengen has realized Gyutaro's ability to change the sickles direction and tries to formulate a plan on how to defeat the siblings. He theorizes that in order to kill the Demons, he would need to cut off Gyutaro's head instead of Daki's and he tries to test it out. Tengen grabs 3 small balls and throws them into the air, he proceeds to aim for them and precisely hits them to cause an explosion within the brothel.
As the brothel begins to crumble, Tengen is seen standing on the rubble as he admits it won't be easy to defeat the Demons. He looks at the large obi ball before him, and the siblings emerge unscathed as they confidently proclaim that they "fight as one".
After successfully finding the box and returning Nezuko inside, Tanjiro quickly tries to return to the battlefield in order to assist Tengen Uzui.
Tengen becomes fed up with Gyutaro's comments.
Back at the battlefield, Gyutaro scowls as he mentions Tengen's supreme abilities, calling him different and talented compared to the other Hashira he's killed. His comments somewhat irritate Tengen and he berates him for thinking that he's talented compared to other people on the planet, calling him ignorant. He grows more and more angry as he recalls the people he's lost over the years despite being called the supposed "chosen" individual by Gyutaro. After listening to him speak, Gyutaro grows irritated at the fact that he has not died yet, revealing that his poison drenched sickles should have killed him.
Tengen explains that he has built a resistance to poison as he was raised in a shinobi household with nine siblings, but by the age of fifteen, seven of them had already died. His father was a cold and heartless individual who would regularly forced them to undergo intense training and as a result, his brother adopted the same ruthless and cold hearted personality. Unable to understand that type of mindset, Tengen left his clan alongside his wives, and approached Kagaya Ubuyashiki to become members of the Corps. Kagaya had warned them it would be hard to reject the values they were raised in, but openly welcomed and thanked Tengen's family for deciding to put their lives at risk to protect others.
Tengen attacks the siblings.
In the present, Gyutaro notices the deterioration in Tengen's physical state and becomes gleeful when he realizes that his poison is slowly taking effect. Tengen proceeds to refute his claim saying that he is still in pristine condition and charges forward to attack the siblings. As they engage in a battle, Tengen manages to kick Daki away from Gyutaro and releases numerous dark beads which cause a cluster of explosions. By setting a distraction, Tengen attempts to decapitate Gyutaro while only hold the tip of one end of his blades but it is promptly blocked by the Demon.
As both sides reassess the situation, Daki is left whining as she pathetically reattaches her head to her body once again. Gyutaro confronts Tengen about discovering the method on how to defeat them but he feigns his innocence pretending not to notice.
Zenitsu and Inosuke arrive to assist in the battle.
Despite Tengen's discovery, Gyutaro cockingly says that despite knowing their weakness, Tengen will still die from the poisoning since the Demons have the advantage in the battle. At that moment, Zenitsu and Inosuke arrive to question the validity of Gyutaro's claim that they're going to win. The two boys flamboyantly announce their arrival to the fight which confuses everyone at the moment, but then Tanjiro drops down from the ceiling above them and stands between the injured Tengen and the Demons, preparing to fight.
Makio and Suma can be seen frantically trying trying to evacuate the citizens of the district as the battle resumes against the Demons. Gyutaro tries to discourage and the three new arrivals and manages to intimidate Tanjiro, however Tengen Uzui comes up behind them and proudly announces that they're going to win. As Daki finishes reattaching her head, she loudly doubts his words by saying that they can't win since the Hashira has been poisoned.
Tanjiro envisions Kyojuro when Tengen speaks.
Unfazed, Tengen once again proudly announces their intent to win and speaks highly of the three boys. Looking back at him, Tanjiro sees the persona of Kyojuro Rengoku emitting from Tengen as he speaks which excites Inosuke.
Gyutaro attacks Tanjiro.
Gyutaro and Daki get riled up and reveal that they've eaten 15 and 7 Hashira respectively, and begin to attack the group. As Daki attempts to attack Tengen and Tanjiro from behind, Zenitsu bursts through the home within seconds to block the attack as Inosuke follows him. Now on the rooftop, Daki finally recognizes Zenitsu from the Kyogoku House and he demandingly commands her to apologize to the girl whom he had found crying earlier. She mocks his speech by revealing that women are treated like merchandise within the district and as the orian, she was allowed to do as she pleased with other people since she was the main breadwinner of the house. When she looks up at Zenitsu, a third eye appears on Daki's forehead revealing that Gyutaro can see them via her new eye.
Zenitsu and Inosuke face Daki.
Back in the brothel, Tanjiro becomes intimidated by Gyutaro's evil aura but formulates a plan to counter his attacks and protect Tengen. However, the Demon manages to rush towards Tanjiro within an instant and catch him off guard, narrowly piercing him through his jaw. Before he can do so, Tengen grabs Tanjiro by the nape of his clothes and throws him to safety before engaging in battle with Gyutaro.
As he crash lands and looks back to see the two fighting, Tanjiro senses an ominous object approaching them from above, and Daki's obi can be seen crashing down all around them. On the rooftop, Daki can be heard cackling as she admits she is now displaying her full strength since Gyutaro is awake and allowing her to used his enhanced senses. Zenitsu and Inosuke can be seen covered in cuts and wounds as they prepare to engage with Daki in battle. The chapter concludes with Gyutaro disregarding Tengen's claims of the boys being Tsuguko, undermining their capabilities as swordsmen.
Tengen using String Performance.
The Demon Slayers can be seen engaging in battle with the two Demons of the Entertainment District, fighting ferociously on the rooftop and inside one of the brothels. As the building begins to collapse, Tengen Uzui finds himself getting cornered between two of Gyutaro's attacks however Tanjiro jumps in and manages to protect him from the slashes. Tengen proceeds to use Sound Breathing, Fifth Form: String Performance to try to corner Gyutaro, but Daki's obi interferes and protects her brother from the attacks.
Hinatsuru using her Kunai box
Tengen begins to be pushed back by the obi, however Tanjiro moves in to cut the obi and tries to distract Gyutaro. The Hashira is left amazed at Tanjiro's endurance despite suffering a serious shoulder wound and realizes that Tanjiro had tied his sword to his hand to prevent him from dropping it due to exhaustion. Meanwhile on the rooftop, Inosuke and Zenitsu can be seen struggling as they try to evade the attacks from Daki's obi. The boys realize that Daki is know attacking them with the blood blades used by Gyutaro, making it impossible for them to approach her.
Now that the brothel has been destroyed, Tengen and Tanjiro are left to fight Gyutaro and the obi beneath the night sky. On a nearby rooftop, Hinatsuru appears carrying a large box filled with kunai darts and proceeds to launch dozens of them down below onto Gyutaro. At first he is left confused behind the random attack, but then Gyutaro utilizes his Blood Demon Art: Rampant Arc Rampage to deflect them away from him.
Gyutaro using his Blood Demon Art.
Gyutaro is left shocked when Tengen proceeds to attack him despite getting pierced with the darts. He attempts to decapitate him with his sickle, however Tengen manages to evade his attack and successfully cut off his legs. At that moment, Gyutaro is struck on the neck by one of the kunai darts and fails to regenerate his feet, realizing that the darts were coated with wisteria extract.
As his body begins to go numb, Tanjiro closes in on him to try to decapitate Gyutaro, leaving him seething with curiosity as the Demon Slayers quickly gain the upper hand.
The kunai darts which were utilized by Hinatsuru were revealed to be coated in a poison which would generally paralyze a Demon for half a day, or possibly immobilize a Lower Rank. She can be seen on a nearby rooftop pleading for the poison to work for even just a moment, as the Demon Slayers attempt to decapitate Gyutaro. However at that moment, Gyutaro manages to regenerate his legs and proceeds to attack them at a close vicinity.
Gyutaro uses his Blood Demon Art.
He uses his Blood Demon Art, Rotating Circular Slashes: Flying Blood Scythes to emit numerous blood slashes to attack them. Before they can reach him, Tengen Uzui grabs hold of Tanjiro and throws him back to protect him from the attack. Within seconds, Tengen uses Sound Breathing, Fourth Form: Constant Resounding Slashes to deflect Gyutaro's attack but finds that he has disappeared from sight. To his horror, he looks up to the roof, only to see that Gyutaro has managed to capture Hinatsuru and is about to kill her.
Tanjiro saves Hinatsuru from Gyutaro.
Tengen tries to save her however Daki's obi blocks him from reaching her. He thinks back to a moment in the past when Hinatsuru had asked to retire from the Corps following their mission, specifically remembering her asking to not harbor any regrets if any of them were to die. Back in the present, Tengen yells at Gyutaro to stop as he tries to push through. Tanjiro comes close to the building and tries to use the Hinokami Kagura to reach her however his body refuses to listen to him. Tanjiro quickly changes tactics and uses a form of the Water Breathing to quickly save Hinatsuru from Gyutaro.
Realizing that he managed to save Hinatsuru, Tanjiro decides to utilize both the Water Breathing as well as the Hinokami Kagura in order to increase his attacking power. Gyutaro is left surprised by Tanjiro's unexpected maneuver and charges at him. However at that moment, Tengen comes behind Gyutaro and swings his blade at Gyutaro's neck while openly yelling that he owes Tanjiro.
On a nearby rooftop, Inosuke can see Tengen move in as he attempts to cut off Gyutaro's head. His frustration grows as they continue to evade Daki's attacks instead of move in to try to decapitate her. Zenitsu calls out to Inosuke and explains that in order to defeat them, they just need to make sure their heads aren't connected instead of trying to decapitate the two simultaneously. Inosuke comically looks at Zenitsu amazed and calls him awesome after seeing the difference in his personality compared to his usual demeanor.
Gyutaro catches Tengen's blade in his mouth.
Meanwhile, Tanjiro assists Tengen by also trying to swing his blade down onto Gyutaro's neck, however the Demon manages to use his sickles to halt both of their attacks and attempts to absorb their blades. Tengen uses his free arm to use his second blade to pierce the Gyutaro, but his quick reflexes allow him to catch the tip of the blade in his mouth. Sensing that Gyutaro is about to unleash more blood blades, Tengen tells Tanjiro to hang in there as Hinatsuru yanks Tanjiro away from them, allowing Tengen to leap off of the roof while pulling the Demon with him.
Before he can leap down to help them, a voice can be heard telling them to watch out as Inosuke and Zenitsu crash onto the roof while fighting the obi. Inosuke and Zenitsu ask Tanjiro for help in order to defeat Daki, and agrees asking that they finish quickly in order to help Tengen. Hinatsuru tells the boys that she will hide quickly in order to allow them to focus on the battle, and disappears as they face Daki.
Inosuke, Tanjiro and Zenitsu attacking Daki.
She gets excited when Tanjiro joins their fight and informs his comrades that they need a fast attack in order to cut her neck. Inosuke realizes that she has slowed down and decides to go first to attack as Zenitsu agrees with Tanjiro to protect him from behind. Inosuke proceeds to dash forward using Beast Breathing, Eighth Fang: Explosive Rush while Zenitsu and Tanjiro use Thunder Breathing, First Form: Thunderclap and Flash, Eightfold and Water Breathing, Third Form: Flowing Dance respectively, to protect Inosuke from the obi.
Daki begins to crack under the pressure as Inosuke close in on her, and manages to draw both of his blades on either side of her neck. Inosuke buries his heels into the ground as he uses Beast Breathing, Sixth Fang: Palisade Bite to effectively decapitate Daki. Tanjiro smiles with joy as he witnesses Inosuke leap and catch Daki's head in the air, rejoicing at successfully cutting off her head. Inosuke claims they have to act fast and keep her head separated from her body.
Having successfully decapitated Daki, Inosuke can be seen escaping with her head in order to prevent her from reattaching it to her body. He tells the other boys not to worry about him and to instead help Tengen, but before he can get to safety, Daki uses her hair to put up a resistance.
Gyutaro stabs Inosuke to rescue his sister.
He manages to put a stop to her resistance but before he can get away, Gyutaro appears behind him and impales him through the chest. Tanjiro looks on in horror as Gyutaro grabs Daki's head while Inosuke collapses on the roof, he then looks down on the ground and is once again horrified to see Tengen laying bleeding and unresponsive on the ground. Zenitsu tries to warn Tanjiro of the oncoming obi attack, but before he can escape, the roof collapses from beneath him and Tanjiro falls to the ground seemingly buried beneath the rubble. As he falls unconscious, he apologizes to everyone and specifically to Nezuko for losing the battle.
Nezuko appears while Tanjiro is unconscious.
In his dream, Nezuko can be seen telling him to stop apologizing for any faults in their lives or for feeling unworthy. She reassures him that it isn't his fault that their lives were ruined and tells him they'll work together to make a better future for themselves. Nezuko begins to cry as her body morphs from her human form to her Demon form and she pleads for him to never apologize for any regrets and tells him she understands how he feels.
Tanjiro awakens from his dream and tries to recollect his thoughts but before he gets up, Gyutaro can be seen standing over him, questioning if he's still alive. Gyutaro takes it upon himself to tell Tanjiro that Inosuke was pierced through the heart, Zenitsu was suffering and trapped beneath the rubble, and Tengen's heart had stopped due to the poison. He proceeds to refer to all of them as pathetic and asks Tanjiro how the Demon in the box is related to him, and he responds by saying she's his younger sister. Gyutaro begins to laugh at Tanjiro's pathetic attempt to protect his sister and tells him he should be using his hands, before proceeding to break his fingers.
Tanjiro makes a final effort to escape.
As Tanjiro withers on the ground in pain, Gyutaro proceeds to berate him for his weakness and pulls him by the hair. He teases Tanjiro and tells him to try to decapitate him, but instead of attacking him, he slaps his hand on a small bag and hangs his head down in defeat. Believing that he broke Tanjiro's fighting spirit, he reveals his grand idea of offering Tanjiro the opportunity to become a Demon for the sake of his sister. Tanjiro suddenly looks up into the sky and Gyutaro asks him if he's trying to hold back his tears but to his surprise, Tanjiro responds that he had been preparing for the moment.
With his face gets close to Gyutaro's, Tanjiro brings his head down and headbutts him with a great force momentarily stunning him. Daki screams at him to get up but as his legs falter, and looks down to discover that a kunai dart has been lodged into his leg. He realizes that when Tanjiro had looked down, he opened a bag given to him by Hinatsuru which contained wisteria poison. Tanjiro manages to stand up while Gyutaro remains paralyzed and crouched before him, and uses his remaining strength to swing the blade down onto his neck.
Having regained his footing and subdued Gyutaro, Tanjiro manages to draw his blade onto Gyutaro's neck and press down to try to decapitate him. As he try to forces the blade down, Tanjiro envisions himself in Gyutaro's place and thinks that if he were in his situation, he would want his comrades to kill him before he could live as a Demon.
Zenitsu escapes from the wreckage.
On a nearby rooftop, Daki can be seen rushing to her feet at the sudden change of events to try to help her brother, but before she can get close to them, Zenitsu manages to free himself from the rubble. He attacks her by using Thunder Breathing, First Form: Thunderclap and Flash to bring her attention to him and then uses Godspeed to quickly attack her neck. Zenitsu pleads with his blade to cut through her neck, since he was given the chance to escape the rubble and attack her while Gyutaro was subdued.
Tengen protects Tanjiro from the sickle.
Tanjiro continues to struggle to try to cut through Gyutaro's neck but before he can do so, Gyutaro manages to emit his blood blades to repel his sword. Tanjiro is knocked off balance as Gyutaro regains his footing, causing them to reengage in battle. Gyutaro gains the upper hand and brings his sickle down onto Tanjiro's neck, however at that moment Tengen, regains his consciousness and protects him from the sickle.
Despite being severely poisoned and missing his left hand, Tengen engages in head to head combat with Gyutaro while remarking that he's perfected the Musical Score Technique. It is revealed that his technique allows him to analyze maneuvers of his opponents and read them like notes on a piece of sheet music. However the poison has hindered his attacking ability meaning that he can only defend Gyutaro's attacks.
Tanjiro gets stabbed through the jaw.
Gyutaro manages to land a powerful attack to the left side of Tengen's face resulting in the loss of his left eye, and proceeds to stab Tengen. Tanjiro yells out to Tengen after witnessing him get stabbed, but Tengen orders him to ignore him and jump. Tanjiro leaps into the air towards Gyutaro and attempts to decapitate him, but is seemingly stabbed through the jaw by Gyutaro's sickle. The Demon begins to panic as they gain the upper hand and pulsate his poison to try to kill Tanjiro, however he proceeds to endure the pain, and swings his blade towards Gyutaro.
At the beginning of the chapter, it is revealed that the Demon siblings were able to keep the Demon Slayers at bay through a hidden ability. During the battle, Gyutaro was controlling his sister and was able to see through her point of view, giving them the advantage. His poison also affected the Demon Slayers greatly, but there was always a member of the team that would slip through, allowing them to continue the fight.
Tanjiro's Demon Slayer Mark emerges as he attacks Gyutaro.
Tanjiro can be seen swinging his blade down onto Gyutaro's neck, despite the Demon's sickle piercing through his jaw. His arm strength isn't enough to slice through his neck so he resorts to forcing his entire body to push through, ignoring the pain. Gyutaro notices the change in Tanjiro's scar as he develops a Demon Slayer Mark and his eyes roll back in his head. The change in his demeanor proves to be too great as Tanjiro's blade cuts through Gyutaro's neck, causing him to panic.
Inosuke assists to decapitate Daki.
Meanwhile, Daki can be seen resisting Zenitsu's attempt to decapitate her. She attempts to use her obi to kill Zenitsu at close range, but Inosuke unexpectedly rushes up revealing that he protected his heart from being stabbed by rearranging his organs. He also reveals that poison has no effect on him since he was raised on the mountains, before proceeding to assist Zenitsu in decapitating Daki.
The three boys let out a roar as they muster out the strength to slice through the Demons necks. After the long battle, Zenitsu and Inosuke manage to decapitate Daki up on the rooftop while Tanjiro can be seen decapitating Gyutaro simultaneously on the ground. Their heads fall onto the ground and roll around until they end up face to face.
The Demon heads are decapitated.
As Gyutaro's body falls onto the ground, Tengen notices something being emitted from it and becomes alarmed. Meanwhile up on a nearby rooftop, Suma, Hinatsuru, and Makio have arrived to witness the end of the battle. Suma makes an offhand joke about Hinatsuru being dead and watching from beyond, causing Makio to smack her across the head, Hinatsuru notices something is amiss down on the battlefield.
She looks down to see Tanjiro struggling to breathe as he bleeds out from his jaw, while trying to slow down the poison. Tanjiro looks over at Tengen who's sitting down in front of him and yelling at him with a panicked expression. However, Tanjiro fails to comprehend his sudden alarm as Tengen looks at him with horror.
Underneath the night sky, Nezuko can be seen looking down at her brother with a concerned expression. As Tanjiro begins to regain consciousness, he looks around to see the destroyed buildings around him. Nezuko nudges her brother as a way of letting him know that she was the one who saved him from the destruction.
Tanjiro attempts to get up to search for the others, but his legs give out from beneath him and he collapses onto the ground. He hears someone calling out to him in the distance and recognizes the voice as belonging to Zenitsu, and is unexpectedly picked up and carried by Nezuko. The pair move towards the source of the commotion and discover Zenitsu has awakened from his slumber, not remembering any of the events that had transpired. He tells Tanjiro that he can hear Inosuke's heartbeat get weaker and weaker and points to him laying unconscious nearby.
Nezuko heals Inosuke by setting him on fire.
The siblings rush over to him and Tanjiro attempts to wake Inosuke up, but to his dismay he feels his heart get weaker. Tanjiro begins to panic and thinks of exposing him to sunlight, or sending a crow to Shinobu for help but realizes he doesn't have time for either of the options. His tears begin to well up as Inosuke lays dying before him, but Nezuko comes forward and unexpectedly sets Inosuke on fire. Tanjiro looks on amazed as he witnesses Inosuke's poisoned skin heal right before his eyes, and his comrade suddenly awakens to announce he's hungry. The three rejoice at the fact that he's okay and embrace as Tanjiro begins to sob.
Elsewhere on the battlefield, Suma begins to wail loudly while pleading for Tengen to live after winning the battle. Her co-wife, Makio, begins to panic as she realizes the antidote they administered is not working to remove the poison from his body, and Hinatsuru begins to weep. Realizing that he doesn't have much time left to live, Tengen begins to relay his final words to his wives, but is interrupted by Suma's loud wails. Makio becomes enraged at Suma's overreactive cries and begins to pull her by the hair and shove rocks into her mouth to make her be quiet, while Hinatsuru tries to prevent them from bickering. In a comical fashion, Tengen sits spectating as his wives continue to bicker while his final moments slip away, he then realizes that he can no longer move his speak due to the poison.
Nezuko sets Tengen on fire.
Everyone momentarily pauses when Nezuko suddenly appears next to Tengen, they proceed to stare at her as she raises her hand and grabs his arm, before setting him on fire. His wives look on in horror until Suma comically pulls Nezuko away, saying that its too soon to cremate him. To their surprise, Tengen begins to speak again and asks how its possible that the poison has been removed from his body, bringing relief to his wives. Tanjiro subtly explains that Nezuko's Blood Demon Art has somehow managed to remove the poison from their bodies and expresses his relief to know that Tengen is safe. Tengen tries to tell Tanjiro to rest if not he will die from his injuries, but he informs Tengen that he needs to confirm that the Demons have been defeated before he can rest.
The Demon siblings begin to argue as they disintegrate.
The siblings proceed throughout the rubble in search of the Demon's heads, and come across a pool of Demon blood. Tanjiro pulls out an apparatus and decides to collect the blood in order to be studied. Once the blood has been collected, Tamayo's cat familiar, Chachamaru, appears before Tanjiro and he puts it in the box to be delivered to Tamayo.
As the siblings continue their search, Tanjiro smells the scent of the Demon's and guides Nezuko to head towards them. When they arrive, Gyutaro and Daki can be seen viciously arguing over their defeat. Their heads begin to disintegrate as they blame each other for losing the battle, with Gyutaro degrading Daki for being useless. Daki retaliates by saying that someone as ugly as Gyutaro cannot be considered her relative, which leaves Tanjiro looking at them concerned about the hurtful words they are spewing at each other.
Tanjiro intervenes in the Demon siblings' argument.
Daki and Gyutaro continue arguing as their heads begin to disintegrate, she starts chastising her brother for being useless and questions if they're even related. Gyutaro grows angry at her comments and calls her a weakling, even regretting protecting her in the first place. He loses his temper and goes on to spew hateful remarks such as mentioning that his life would've been better without her and wishing that she had never been born, causing Daki's eyes to well up with tears. Tanjiro intervenes and covers Gyutaro's mouth, stating that he doesn't mean what he's saying and that they shouldn't spend their final moments fighting with each other.
Daki begins to wail at Tanjiro out of frustration, yelling at him to leave them alone and stop lecturing them. Daki's head reaches its last phases of disintegration and she cries out for her brother to save her, saying that she doesn't want to die. Gyutaro hopelessly watches as her head dissolves away while still calling out him, before he impulsively calls out to her by her birth name, Ume.
Gyutaro remembers his past as a human born in the Kirimise to a prostitute mother.
As he reaches his final moments, Gyutaro remembers his past as a human born in the Kirimise to a prostitute mother. Before she died from syphilis, his mother tried to kill him many times, even after his younger sister was born. Due to his appearance, his voice and lack of hygiene, the young Gyutaro was bullied and detested by everyone he met. Things began to change after his sister was born, as her beauty dismissed his inferiority complex, and he used his ugliness, plus his newfound fighting skills, to become an efficient debt collector.
Gyutaro returns from a job, only to find his sister horribly burned due to the actions of a vengeful samurai.
However, the good fortune would not last for the siblings. When Ume turned 13, she blinded a samurai with a comb, and was subsequently burned alive for her crime. Having been away on his job at the time, Gyutaro returned to find her barely alive, and hugged her as she clinged to life. He cursed the gods to return his sister and for treating them cruelly, before he is attacked by the same samurai. The samurai slashes Gyutaro from behind, allowing him to bleed out at he chats with one of the brothel managers.
The manager brazingly calls Gyutaro a nuisance and a brute for harassing the locals of the district, before expressing her pity at having lost Ume as a courtesan. Before the samurai could finish him off, Gyutaro viciously kills the manager, and berates the samurai for having a lavish lifestyle before gruesomely killing him as well, by snapping his katana and slicing his head in half with his sickle. As Gyutaro tried to find help for him and his sister, no one would help them due to their reputation and circumstances. He trudges on through the street until he ultimately collapses and bleeds out on the floor, as snow begins to fall. The siblings lay on the floor dying, until they are discovered by one of the Upper Ranks, who offers to turn them into Demons. Gyutaro adamantly proclaims that he would become a Demon again, no matter how many times he is reborn, wanting to always bring fear as "Gyutaro the Debt Collector".
Having made up, Gyutaro and Daki continue forward into the hell.
Gyutaro muses how Daki could have been if he had raised her differently, before taking note of his surroundings. A younger looking Daki appeared behind him, disgusted with their current location and wondering where the exit was. Gyutaro ordered her not to follow him anymore, getting angry when she wouldn't comply. A tearful Daki apologized for her earlier cruel insults, stating that it was because she had not wanted to accept that it was her fault that they had lost. When Gyutaro still refused to let her come with him, Daki tackled him from behind, stubbornly refusing to ever let go, vowing to always be his little sister no matter how often they are reborn, and reminding him of the promise they had made long ago to always stay together. Finally accepting her company, Gyutaro carries his sister into the hell that awaits them.
Hearing the news about the defeat of one of the Upper Ranks, Kagaya is determined to see Muzan defeated in his generation.
In the world of the living, Tanjiro and Nezuko watch as the last of the Demon siblings dissolves into the air. Tanjiro wonders if they made up, which Nezuko affirms. Elsewhere, Obanai Iguro attempts to praise Tengen for his defeat of Upper Rank 6, but is disappointed that he beat such a low ranking member of the Twelve Kizuki, as well as lost his left arm and eye. Tengen states his intention to retire as a Hashira, but Obanai refuses to accept this, as there is already a vacant Hashira position and the lower ranks of the Demon Slayer Corps keep on dying without improving. Tengen disagrees with this last point, stating that Tanjiro is definitely improving, while Obanai is surprised he survived the fight.
Elsewhere, Kagaya Ubuyashiki learns of the group's victory and is elated, but is stricken by complications from his illness. He states that this victory will have massive consequences, enough to ensure Muzan Kibutsuji's defeat within their generation, and then collapses into a bout of coughing. At the Infinity Castle, Akaza ponders how his summoning must mean a member of the Upper Ranks has been defeated.
