A young boy carries a visibly-wounded, unconscious girl through a snowy path on his back. This girl is revealed to be his younger sister, Nezuko. He treks frantically through the snow and begs her to stay alive, vowing that her big brother would save her.
Tanjiro Kamado prepares to depart his home.
As New Year is about to arrive, Tanjiro Kamado prepares to leave his home, selling charcoal to put food on his family's table for the holiday. His siblings Hanako and Shigeru overhear him and beg to go as well, but their mother sternly refuses as they would only slow him down. Tanjiro calls out to his brother, Takeo, and asks him to chop the firewood while he's away, much to the latter's disappointment as he hints that he wanted to chop wood with his older brother. Tanjiro bids farewell to his mother and siblings as they remind him to stay safe. As he sets off, he runs into Nezuko, rocking their youngest sibling, Rokuta, to sleep. She mentions their younger siblings' attachment to Tanjiro since their father's death and bids him goodbye.
As he travels, he remarks that they have always made the most of their life, since it could quickly one day shift so suddenly. As Tanjiro arrives in the town, everyone is delighted to see him and immediately call him over to buy some of his charcoal. One of the villagers cries out to Tanjiro and asks him to take a whiff of a broken plate to figure out who the culprit was. The boy's keen sense of smell is able to detect that it was a cat at fault and not the villager who was being held responsible for it.
As the sun begins to set, Tanjiro begins his journey home but before he goes to ascend the mountain, an elder by the name of Saburo stops him on his travel, forbidding to let him from going back to the mountain as the sky turns dark. He tells him not to worry as his nose can quickly smell dangers, but the man insists he take refuge in his house for the night in case of a demon attack. Inside his hut, Tanjiro asks if demons could enter homes. Saburo answers so, informing him it is the job of Demon Slayers to protect them. Saburo, who lost his family to demons years ago, is pitied by Tanjiro, while remembering that his grandmother too had said something about demons to him before her death.
Nezuko begins to stir, revealing she is no longer human.
At dawn, Tanjiro departs from Saburo's residence and makes his way back. Outside his yard, he sees a bloodied Nezuko holding Rokuta lying on the snowy ground. Horrified, he goes to check the house and is shocked to see his home destroyed and everyone inside brutally killed. As Nezuko is the only one with warmth in her body, Tanjiro hurriedly carries her on his back to see a doctor. Questions begin to flood Tanjiro's mind as he wonders if a bear was responsible for the attack. The blizzard makes it difficult for him to breathe and he struggles to make his way to the town. Suddenly, Nezuko rears up, growling and with fangs in her mouth; she pulls back on Tanjiro and causes both of them to fall off a cliff. The thick snow protects Tanjiro from the fall.
He finds Nezuko standing upright and asks if she is okay, only to be suddenly attacked by her. Tanjiro is forced to jam his hatchet into her mouth to prevent getting bit as he realizes to his horror that Nezuko is now a demon. He questions why, since she was born human, despite her now smelling of death and blood. However, he remembers that she was lying over Rokuta and didn't have the blood of her family on her, noting that another scent was inside the house. She grows in size and gains strength, with Tanjiro struggling more to hold her back. He laments that his family has died brutally whilst he was away. Tanjiro starts attempting to appeal to what is left of his sister's humanity, encouraging her to stop and do her best to not give into being a demon. Eventually, she ceases her struggle and starts to cry; upon seeing his sister's tears, Tanjiro cries as well.
A swordsman attacks the demon Nezuko.
Suddenly, a swordsman strikes at Nezuko: Tanjiro rolls himself and Nezuko away to avoid the attack. The katana-wielding man asks why Tanjiro was protecting a demon. Although Tanjiro tells him that the demon is his sister, the man insists on killing her, before lunging forward and grabbing hold of Nezuko, too fast for Tanjiro to see. He states that it is his job as a Demon Slayer to kill them and prepares to behead her. Tanjiro begs for her life and claims she has not killed anyone, wondering why she was turned into a demon in the first place, only for the man to respond that since demon blood has enter her through injuries, she has transformed. He promises to make a cure but the Demon Slayer tells him becoming a demon is irreversible.
Giyu tests Tanjiro's resolve, questioning if he can truly save Nezuko.
Unwilling to let the last of his family die, Tanjiro kneels down and begs for Nezuko to be spared. The man grows angry and rebukes him for his weak resolve, stating that a weak person cannot avenge his family or return his sister into a human again. He demands that Tanjiro fight for something, claiming that demons may know how to change someone back but will not respect whining and crying, adding that he doesn't respect Tanjiro as well. Inside, the swordsman chastises himself for being late but refuses to dwell further. Despite knowing the great pain Tanjiro is experiencing, he begs the boy to keep his anger in his heart, as it will push him to do what he must.
While Tanjiro is left forlorn, the swordsman stabs Nezuko in the chest, causing her great pain. Tanjiro immediately throws a rock at him and charges. The man becomes angry over what was merely an emotionally-charged attack. He knocks Tanjiro unconscious but notices that he was not carrying his hatchet. He looks up into the sky and ducks out of the way of the falling hatchet, barely missing him. Through this carefully-planned assault by the young boy, the swordsman becomes aware of Tanjiro's resolve to protect his sister, willing to sacrifice even his own life in order to save her from him. While the swordsman is distracted, Nezuko breaks free of his hold and rushes to Tanjiro's motionless body. The swordsman curses himself for letting his guard down, expecting Nezuko to devour her brother.
However, she instead defends her unconscious brother, using her own body to shield him. The man recalls many a time that someone too had said the same about their demon-turned relative, only to be eaten since demons will even feed on family members. Seeing her injuries, he notes that she is spending energy to heal and yet refrains from killing Tanjiro. Realizing that these siblings are different, he opts to spare Nezuko, sheathing his katana and knocking her unconscious instead. As he is unconscious, Tanjiro dreams of his mother and siblings surrounding him; she apologizes for leaving him and entrusts Nezuko to his care.
Tanjiro buries his deceased family members.
Tanjiro wakes up with tears in his eyes, seeing Nezuko with a bamboo muzzle in her mouth to prevent her from biting him, laid unconscious but alive beside him. Having waiting for him to awaken, the swordsman appears behind a tree and asks them to look for an elder named Sakonji Urokodaki, who lives at the foot of Mount Sagiri, and to tell him that Giyu Tomioka sent them. Finally, he advises Tanjiro to not bring his sister out in the sun, before disappearing. Tanjiro buries the members of his family beside their house while Nezuko looks on. The Kamado siblings take each others' hands and starts on their journey to look for Sakonji.
Following Giyu's advice to keep Nezuko away from the sun, Tanjiro opts to buy a basket from a nearby farmer to protect her in the day. The farmer offers to give it for free since it is damaged but Tanjiro insists on paying. Again, he refuses money and adds that he can take the straw and bamboo for free. Tanjiro stubbornly wants to give him the money and the farmer annoyedly denies payment. Tanjiro slaps coins into his hand and thanks him, while the farmer yelps in pain. After repairing it, Tanjiro finds Nezuko has dug herself into a dirt tunnel, her scared expression showing her great reluctance to let sunlight touch her.
Unsure if she can fit, or even understand him, Tanjiro slowly asks if she could shrink herself similar to how she previously grew in size. Eventually, Nezuko does as Tanjiro asks and fits inside. With the basket on his back, Tanjiro sets out to Mount Sagiri. He finds a woman and asks for directions. She tells him the mountain is across another but is worried since it is now dark. Tanjiro reassures her that he will be safe.
As night falls, Tanjiro and Nezuko find a small temple hut in the woods and decide to look inside. As they enter, Tanjiro smells blood and worries about the possibility of a traveler being injured, rushing into the building. However, he instead finds a demon feasting upon the three dead residents. The demon shoots the siblings a glance and warns them that this is his feasting grounds. Upon seeing the bloodied bodies, Nezuko starts to salivate and Tanjiro goes into a state of shock at his first encounter with a man-eating demon.
The demon suddenly realizes that Tanjiro is human and rushes out of the temple to kill him. Tanjiro uses his hatchet to slash the demon by the neck, fending him away, but the wound immediately begins to heal. The demon proceeds to outspeed the boy and pins him onto the ground with his agility and strength. Before the demon can kill Tanjiro, Nezuko, who had been fighting the urge to eat the bodies, comes to her brother's aid and kicks his head clean off from his neck while Tanjiro watches, shocked over her unexpected new ability to kill.
The Temple Demon's body attacking Nezuko.
Tanjiro fighting the Temple Demon's head.
However, the demon's body continues to attack Tanjiro despite being beheaded, prompting Nezuko to give the headless body another kick. The severed head yells at Tanjiro, asking why a demon would travel with a human. He runs to grab Nezuko, distracting her and Tanjiro while growing another pair of arms from the detached head. He charges at Tanjiro but the boy proceeds to headbutt and pin him onto a nearby tree with his hatchet handle.
Tanjiro runs off into the forest to look for Nezuko, finding her under attack from the headless body as it continues to kick her dangerously close to a cliff's edge. He tackles the body off the cliff, being narrowly saved by Nezuko and making the headless body fall straight onto the ground below. Although the impact from the fall of his body causes the demon great pain, enough to knock him unconscious, it does not kill him.
The siblings return to the demon's head pinned by the tree and Tanjiro draws out a small knife, intending to end the demon's life. However, despite knowing that it will save the lives of others, he hesitates to kill it. Enough time in his hesitation passes for a person wearing a strange mask to approach him from behind, telling him that the knife that he holds cannot kill the demon.
Sakonji receiving the message from Giyu.
An old man wearing a tengu mask receives a letter from a crow sent by Giyu. Giyu states that a young boy whose family was slaughtered by a demon is on his way to meet him, wanting to become a Demon Slayer. Within the letter, Giyu additionally explains the boy's sister was turned into a demon; however believing she will not harm humans. He also observes that the boy possesses the same sharpened sense of smell as Sakonji does and requests that he train him, believing he could potentially grow to become the old man's successor.
Remembering this letter, the man now looks at Tanjiro as he is about to finish off the demon he has just restrained with a small knife. Tanjiro notes his strange mask, remembering how he never noticed the man's presence at all as his footsteps were so light. The boy asks him on the proper course of action but the man tells him not to trust what others say, claiming he must solve this alone.
Tanjiro spots a rock nearby and decides that instead of the knife, assuming he could use the rock to crush the demon's skull repeatedly until it eventually dies. However, before he is able to act, he feels a pang of sympathy imagining how much pain the demon would suffer and tries to think of a less painful method to kill it in one blow. Upon detecting Tanjiro's hesitation, Sakonji realizes Tanjiro's scent is overflowing with empathy, reluctance, and kindness even towards a demon, berating Giyu in his mind as he believes that Tanjiro isn't a suitable candidate. The demon then awakens and weakly tries to grab at Tanjiro.
Sakonji slapping Tanjiro for hesitating.
As Tanjiro continues to hesitate with making a move, the first rays of sunlight appear and instantly burn the demon to ashes, causing Tanjiro to realize why Nezuko dislikes the sun so much: Nezuko, inside the temple, has crawled back inside her basket to avoid the sunlight. Meanwhile, Sakonji gives the deceased a proper burial within the outside area. When Tanjiro approaches the man, he introduces himself as Sakonji Urokodaki but before Tanjiro has the opportunity to properly introduce himself and his sister, Sakonji questions Tanjiro on what he would do if his sister ever devoured a human being. Tanjiro pauses before answering and Sakonji slaps him, reprimanding him for being too hesitant to give a quicker response.
He tells Tanjiro that in the event of his sister ever eating a human being, he should kill her and then kill himself, as he conveys that is the reality of travelling with a demon-turned sibling. Sakonji firmly claims he must never let Nezuko take an innocent life, asking if Tanjiro understands him. Understanding the fundamental threat and danger of what he is doing, Tanjiro acknowledges. With his answer, the man tells him he will test his resolve to see if he is fit to be a Demon Slayer.
Tanjiro running after Sakonji.
Running in the middle of the day, Sakonji's speed makes it difficult for Tanjiro to follow after him. As he is running, Tanjiro feels sorry for Nezuko as she is being jostled around inside the basket. He recalls Nezuko always being patient whilst enduring hardships throughout her whole life. For the sake of their siblings, Nezuko had refused to buy new clothes in order to buy more food for them instead. Tanjiro firmly vows to turn her back into a human and give everything to her with the intent of redeeming himself for the things he is unable to do now for his deceased siblings. They soon reach a hut and Tanjiro breathlessly asks whether he had passed the test but Sakonji tells him that the test has only just begun, ordering him to ascend the mountain. Upon hearing these words, Tanjiro is dumbfounded but complies.
After leaving Nezuko in the hut, the pair head up the mountain. After a while, Tanjiro feels that his legs are tired to the point where he is unable to move them and his head grows dizzy. Upon reaching a certain point, Sakonji reveals to Tanjiro that the test is for him to reach the bottom of the mountain to where his house is, declaring he will not wait until dawn for him this time as Sakonji then vanishes within the haze. Surprised that the test is so simple, Tanjiro believes his sense of smell would make it a breeze and begins following Sakonji's scent. However, just as he takes a step, Tanjiro's foot gets caught into a trap which launches small rocks towards him. He then falls into a hidden pitfall, before he then accidentally triggers another trap right after crawling out, releasing a tied log that hits him from behind.
Tanjiro successfully returns.
Tanjiro grasps the possibility that he would not be able to reach the foot of the mountain by dawn if he continues to get caught in these traps. Moreover, the mountain's air is thinner than where he had lived before, causing him to have difficulties of breathing normally. Feeling desperate, Tanjiro wonders if he could truly make it back in time before steadying himself and tells himself with determination that he must make it back. By adjusting his breathing and concentrating, he attempts to smell out the distinctly different hidden human traps in the surroundings. Even so, he is not agile enough to avoid all of them.
Meanwhile, by the foot of the mountain, Sakonji places a blanket over the sleeping Nezuko. He suddenly hears some noise by his door and sees it open to discover a bloodied and battered Tanjiro panting heavily. As he slumps down to the ground, Tanjiro states he successfully made it back. As the morning sun begins to rise, Sakonji informs Tanjiro that he has now acknowledged him as his student.
Sakonji explains to Tanjiro that the Demon Slayer Corps consists of several hundred members, and despite it not being recognized by the government, they have fought demons for a long time and continue to battle demons today. However, its leader is shrouded in mystery.
He goes on to tell Tanjiro more information about demons. While it is unsure how they began to appear, there are things that are known with certainty; they must eat humans in order to survive and they have special abilities, such as being able to regenerate wounds when they're physically injured. Others can even change form or use special powers. The only way they can be destroyed is through exposure to sunlight or by decapitation with a specialized blade. The organization of the Demon Slayers have continued to hunt them with their mortal selves across a number of generations.
Sakonji then introduces his role as one of the many 'cultivators', individuals who train and furnish swordsmen with a variety of techniques and skills. He informs Tanjiro that if anyone desires to join the ranks of the Demon Slayers, they must first survive an event known as Final Selection, held at Mount Fujikasane. Sakonji reveals to Tanjiro how he will be the only one to decide if he is qualified enough to participate in Final Selection.
After numerous descents down Mount Sagiri, Tanjiro has grown stronger and his sense of smell has sharpened. However, he also discerns the traps are becoming alarmingly more dangerous at the same time, coming to the assumption of whether Sakonji's real motive is actually trying to kill him. When he makes a descent while holding a katana, it gets in the way and causes him to be ensnared in the traps again. Next, he is taught skills of the sword, swinging it repeatedly and Sakonji explaining how slicing along the direction of the blade is the way to make a direct cut, as it may break when used incorrectly.
Tanjiro trains with Sakonji.
Then, he is taught to get back up after a fall, with Sakonji repeatedly tripping him over for a whole day. He then instructs Tanjiro to attack him armed whilst he is bare-handed. The old trainer effortlessly flips him into the air and defeats his student with ease. He is then taught breathing forms, but when told to take a deep breath, Tanjiro's long inhale is answered by a slap in the stomach for using  the incorrect method.
Tanjiro trains for six months, but in that time, Nezuko continues to remain in a deep sleep. Sakonji calls on a doctor to comes by and look at her, but he finds nothing wrong with the demon. Anxious by the possibility of finding her dead, Tanjiro steels himself and decides to train harder.
Sakonji tells Tanjiro to split the boulder and prove himself.
After a full year of training, Sakonji tells Tanjiro that he has nothing else to teach him. Taken aback, Tanjiro notes the amount of time that has passed since their arrival. Sakonji tells the boy to continue improving his techniques and challenges Tanjiro to split a huge boulder in half in order to prove his worth and participate in Final Selection. Tanjiro starts to panic, as the task at hand seems impossible with a mere blade, but from that day onwards, Sakonji ceases to teach Tanjiro new skills.
As another six months passes, while his technique and body has gotten more refined, Tanjiro is still unable to split the rock no matter how hard he practices. Confused at his fruitless efforts and disheartened, he yells in frustration, to which a voice demands him to silence himself. Surprised, Tanjiro observes that the voice came from a person wearing a fox mask, perched on top of the boulder, a person who did not have a scent nor a presence. The masked boy tells Tanjiro to bear his suffering like a man would and attacks him using a wooden blade, which Tanjiro clumsily blocks. The boy notes the extent of Tanjiro's weaknesses, deeming him unsuitable to be a Demon Slayer.
The boy with a fox mask challenges Tanjiro to a fight, to which he declines as the stranger is only wielding a wooden sword, whilst Tanjiro has with him a real sword. The boy laughs at Tanjiro for believing he had a chance and declares that as someone who had succeeded in splitting the boulder, he wouldn't be hurt by someone weaker. Shocked by learning the boulder can be split, Tanjiro is beaten down by the stranger's superior technique, who continues to admonish him for only remembering Total Concentration Breathing as a fact without understanding it, much less using it.
Makomo appears.
Tanjiro claims he has tried to do so but the boy tells him that trying and doing it is not the same. Ordering him to attack with all his strength, Tanjiro swings at the stranger, who dodges and strikes him in the chin, knocking him unconscious. With his opponent defeated, the masked boy turns his attention to a girl entering the forest, only telling her, "I'll leave the rest to you".
Tanjiro sees the girl as he awakens and asks her if she had witnessed the fight. Tanjiro states to her how he wishes to be as skilled as the boy someday, stunned by his unique abilities. The girl replies that he will indeed be able to master those techniques one day, claiming she will be there to witness his strength. Tanjiro requests for her name, thinking to himself that the girl is cute. She introduces herself as Makomo and the boy with the fox mask as Sabito.
Over time, Makomo acts as Tanjiro's teacher to aid him in correcting his sword postures, bad habits, and breathing techniques. When Tanjiro asks why she was willing to teach him, she only replies, "We really like Urokodaki", to Tanjiro's confusion. Makomo also informs Tanjiro that she and Sabito are not siblings; they were orphans taken in by Sakonji along with many children that are currently watching him.
Makomo teaches him the importance of Total Concentration Breathing. It accelerates blood flow and increases the body's temperature, enabling them to match a demon's strength. By expanding the lungs, one can force much air into the body and become enhanced in strength. Tanjiro is perplexed by this understanding; when asking Makomo how it is possible, she only says, "You must train so hard that you could die. Basically, I don't think there's anything else you can do". Even after excessively training over time, to the point where his arms feels as if they may be ready to fall off along with his heart and lungs burning within his chest, Tanjiro is still unable to defeat Sabito.
Sabito's mask breaks, revealing his face.
Six months pass since Tanjiro has met Sakonji's students, culminating in a final spar with Sabito now armed with a real blade. A determined and changed Tanjiro announces to Sabito that this is the day he will win. In a simple head-on contest, the stronger and faster blade wins: Tanjiro and Sabito clash but the battle is over in an instant when Tanjiro becomes the one to strike first. Cutting through Sabito's fox mask, it falls off to reveal a both sad and relieved blissful smile from Sabito directed at him. A smiling Makomo tells him: "Win Tanjiro... against them too".
Sabito and Makomo disappear in a haze as Tanjiro realizes that his sword, believing had cut through Sabito's mask, actually sliced the boulder in half.
Sakonji informs his student of a crucial piece of information about defeating demons. He points out that they must be decapitated at the neck and that it can only be done with a special blade called a Nichirin Sword.
Sakonji giving Tanjiro his blessing.
Tanjiro realizes that his training with Makomo has enabled him to detect the Opening Thread: a scent he follows to guide his blade towards his opponent's neck. Sakonji enters the clearing and informs him that he had no intention of sending Tanjiro to Final Selection. He could not bear to watch another child die and was certain the boulder could not be sliced. Acknowledging his student as remarkable, he pulls him into a hug and asks him to return from Final Selection safely, as his sister and himself will wait for him.
Before setting off, Tanjiro receives a hand carved warding mask which looked similar to the ones worn by Sabito and Makomo, from Sakonji and says goodbye to a still sleeping Nezuko. He bids his trainer farewell, entrusting him to care for Nezuko, Sabito, and Makomo while he is away. Sakonji is left astonished that Tanjiro is somehow able to recall the names of "those deceased children", questioning how he knew who they were.
Arrival at Final Selection.
Arriving to the Final Selection at Mount Fujikasane, Tanjiro admires the wisteria flowers glistening the area as he climbs up the stairs, since they do not bloom at this time of the year. Once he reaches the top, he encounters a large number of young swordsmen waiting to participate in the event. Two curators organizing the event inform the students that the mountain contains demons captured alive by Demon Slayers, and due to the blooming wisteria surrounded around the foot of the mountain they are imprisoned inside the forest because of their hatred of its scent. However, the wisteria only reaches half way up its slope, and past the top where they are, demons are free to roam about and hunt. The applicants must survive there for seven days to pass Final Selection.
Once the selection begins, Tanjiro immediately encounters two demons who bicker over the right to kill and eat Tanjiro. As they both charge at him, he utilizes Water Breathing, Fourth Form: Striking Tide and detects the Opening Thread, successfully defeating the demons simultaneously.
The deformed demon that Tanjiro encounters.
As he takes a moment to pray for the demon's souls, he is caught off guard by an overwhelming stench, and the screams of a applicant running away. When he turns to face the sound, he witnesses a large deformed demon chasing the swordsman while carrying another boy by the throat. As the boy runs, the demon suddenly manifests a gigantic arm that grabs the boy by the leg, pulling him into the air. Tanjiro stands in fear but wills himself to use his skill to help save the boy. Before the demon is able to eat the him, Tanjiro intervenes by using Water Breathing, Second Form: Water Wheel to slice one of the limbs off of the demon, who glares back at Tanjiro and comments, "Another of my dear foxes has come!"
In the forests of Mount Sagiri, at the site of Tanjiro's sliced boulder, Sabito and Makomo converse about the boy they have taught. Makomo worriedly asks if Tanjiro will be able to 'do it'. Sabito is unsure and remarks that no amount of effort is to much.
The morphed demon asks Tanjiro what Meiji emperor now sits on the throne. When Tanjiro answers that the imperial family is now the Taisho, the demon roars in anger over being imprisoned for so long, new dynasties have occurred. He curses Sakonji Urokodaki out loud, and when Tanjiro asks how he knows of his trainer, he replies it was Sakonji himself who imprisoned him on Mount Fujikasane 47 years ago, during the Keio era of the Edo Period. Tanjiro is shocked, with the applicant he saved claiming he is lying, stating that the demons of Final Selection are ones who have only killed 2-3 people. The demon replies he has survived for so long by eating 50 of them.
The Hand Demon gloats over killing Sakonji's students.
Tanjiro suddenly remembers Sakonji's advice that a demon's strength is equal to its number of human victims. It begins to count to 14 and suddenly points at Tanjiro, claiming he is the fourteenth student of Sakonji he has encountered, having devoured the previous 13. He mentions two that he will never forget: one was a boy with peach colored hair and a scar on his mouth, the most powerful student he has faced, and the other was a small girl who made up for her lack of size and strength with extreme agility.
He adds that by knowing the texture of the warding mask they wear, he can identify them as Sakonji's students and devour them in revenge, claiming that he might as well had fed them to him. Finally, he mentions that when he told Makomo this, she flew into a rage and couldn't focus, leading him to rip her apart.
The demon strikes an erratic Tanjiro from the side.
Enraged, Tanjiro lunges towards the morphed demon, slicing away its arms erratically. Sabito, sensing his anguished fighting, tells him to even out his breathing and forget about them. The boy is then struck by a stray arm from the side and slams into a tree, breaking his mask. The applicant he had saved sees him about to die and runs away to escape. Before the demon can grab him, Tanjiro sees a vision of Shigeru begging him to wake up.
He avoids the demon's grasp barely and continues slicing away its arms. He senses a scent from below and leaps up to avoid more arms from grabbing him, surprising the demon. It tries to punch him with a giant arm but Tanjiro headbutts it to deflect the blow. Seeing he has escaped his hold, the demon remains unfazed, remembering that his neck is so tough, even Sabito was unable to slash through.
Tanjiro gets close and senses the Opening Thread. When Makomo fears that Tanjiro will die too, Sabito states that it is not certain whether he can win or lose, but what is undisputable is that the boulder Tanjiro had managed to sliced is the largest one anyone has ever managed to accomplish.
Tanjiro then uses Water Breathing, First Form: Water Surface Slash and cuts through the neck of the giant demon.
A younger Sakonji Urokodaki.
As Tanjiro lunges forward to kill the morphed demon, he suddenly remembers experiencing the same feeling when he was defeated by Sakonji Urokodaki. His blade cuts through its thick neck, defeating it.
As the demon's head falls to the ground and his body begins to disintegrate to ash, he curses Tanjiro for killing him. Unable to turn his head away, he laments that he will witness the face of a disgusted Demon Slayer as the final thing he would ever see. To his surprise, Tanjiro looks at him with a sad expression on his face. Seeing this reminds him of when he was once a scared boy who always asked for his brother's hand, before remembering that he had eaten him after becoming a demon.
The demon's body grows a hand extended to Tanjiro, who smells the scent of sadness from within it. He gently holds it and prays that during reincarnation, this demon would no longer become one, as the severed head begins to cry. In the afterlife, the demon is turned into a young boy holding his older brother's hand. In the forests of Mount Sagiri, the souls of Sakonji's fallen students disappear in the mist, finally put to rest. Despite this, Tanjiro believes that if he had died, his soul would be with Nezuko's and Sakonji's.
Two survivors of Final Selection.
After seven days, the survivors of Final Selection meet at the mountain peak's shrine again. Tanjiro is shocked to find only four of them have lived, since there were nearly 20 of them in the beginning, and he laments not seeing the applicant he had saved previously. The twins who welcomed them to the selection congratulate the survivors. One boy laments his survival as he believed he would die during it, while another boy asks for his katana. A girl among them quietly admires a butterfly instead.
The twins inform the survivors that they will be issued a uniform and have their ranks engraved, of which there are ten: Mizunoto, Mizunoe, Kanoto, Kanoe, Tsuchinoto, Tsuchinoe, Hinoto, Hinoe, Kinoto, and Kinoe. All survivors are given the rank of Mizunoto. The boy of earlier asks for his katana again, to which the twins respond that they will instead choose their ore now but the blades are to be completed two weeks later. They are then assigned a Kasugai Crow for communication, though the scared boy has a sparrow instead.
Tanjiro stopping the quarrelsome boy.
Angered, the quarrelsome survivor swats away his crow and grabs one of the twins by the hair, demanding his sword now. Tanjiro grabs his arm and demands he let go, threatening to break it. When the boy implores him to try, Tanjiro tightens his grip, hurting him into pulling away. Afterwards, they are presented with the ores of their blades.
At an unknown location, a man is informed by a Kasugai Crow that five have survived Final Selection. He wonders what kind of swordsmen they may become.
After surviving Final Selection, an exhausted Tanjiro walks back to Mount Sagiri, using a stick to support himself on his trek back to his trainer's hut. He laments his inability to gather information from at least eight demons, who did not answer his questions and tried to kill him, apologizing to Nezuko for his ill-fated optimism and failure.
Tanjiro reunites with Nezuko and Sakonji.
As night falls, he finally makes it back to Sakonji's hut. To his surprise, the door is kicked down and Nezuko walks out onto the yard. Seeing her awake for the first time in two years, he calls out to his sister and she runs to him. Tanjiro tries to race down to meet her but falls down due to his exhausted state. As he gets up, Nezuko reaches around and pulls him into a hug, while Tanjiro cries and holds her close, asking why she was asleep for so long. Sakonji then appears and embraces the siblings as tears fall from his mask, happy that a student of his has finally come home.
Fifteen days later, a man with unusual clothes and a hat lined with furin appears in Sakonji's residence. He introduces himself as Haganezuka and states that he has forged the sword of Tanjiro Kamado. Tanjiro says he is the recipient but Haganezuka puts down his Nichirin Sword onto the ground to unwrap it, ignoring Tanjiro's offer to come inside. He explains that the iron and sand used to forge it absorb sunlight, and it originates from a mountain that is constantly bathed in light. Inside his hut, Sakonji is annoyed that Haganezuka is speaking his mind without the consideration of others.
Haganezuka, Tanjiro's swordsmith, arrives to deliver his blade.
Suddenly, he turns to face Tanjiro, who is shocked to see him wearing a hyottoko mask. He calls Tanjiro a 'child of brightness', though he attempts to correct him by saying he is actually the son of Tanjuro and Kie. Haganezuka points out that he is talking about his red hair and eyes, saying he must come from a family that works with fire, surprising him. He turns to Sakonji and states that it would mean his blade would turn red.
Inside, Tanjiro prepares to unsheathe his blade for the first time. Haganezuka mentions that Nichirin Sword are also known as 'color-changing sword' as they do so with each wielder. Upon revealing the blade, Tanjiro watches as it turns black. Hearing Sakonji's and Haganezuka's reaction, the former puts his student at ease by pointing out that a black blade is simply uncommon, not a symbol of bad luck. However, Haganezuka is less than pleased, as he had hoped to see a red sword, and proceeds to attack Tanjiro.
Tanjiro's Kasugai crow interrupts the dispute to inform Tanjiro to disembark on his first mission, to resolve the mystery of girls disappearing night after night in a neighboring town.
