Following the Swordsmith Village's attack, rebuilding has began due to the lingering threat of demons. Damage was kept at a minimum, but for the villagers, there was no time to mourn the dead. In the Butterfly Mansion, Tanjiro speaks with Goto and is told that the village will be relocated. Goto remarks on his hasty eating, since he had been unconscious for a week, but Tanjiro is unconcerned, mentioning both the Love and Mist Hashira have nearly recovered completely in three days. The Kakushi asks about Nezuko, having heard that something remarkable had happened to her, to which Tanjiro answers that she was able to withstand sunlight; he mentions she is being examined on whether she is returning into a human or evolving as a demon. Goto asks if Shinobu is leading the examination and Tanjiro corrects him by stating that it is Tamayo, but begins coughing while eating, annoying the Kakushi with his correct assumption.
He then asks on the whereabouts of Sumi, Kiyo, Naho, and Aoi, to which Tanjiro explains that with no one to help recover, they've spent time playing with Nezuko. Goto comments that all is at peace until the return of Zenitsu, who eventually arrives back at the mansion after his mission; his screaming immediately annoys Sumi and Aoi. Ecstatic and excited to see Nezuko speaking, Zenitsu begins complimenting her excessively and asking that she marry him, much to Aoi's chagrin. When Nezuko suddenly calls him Inosuke, his happy mood shatters and he threatens to kill Inosuke, who was revealed to have been repeatedly attempting to make Nezuko say his name.
The Hashira attending the emergency Hashira Meeting.
At an emergency Hashira Meeting in the Ubuyashiki Mansion, as Sanemi speaks of his jealousy of not being able to face the Upper Ranks, Obanai asks Mitsuri and Muichiro on their condition. Mitsuri happily answers she is much better and Muichiro answers so, but adds he is not fully himself. Gyomei is relieved they have survived and successfully defeated the higher demons, while Shinobu is astounded by their speedy recovery. As Giyu asks if Kagaya will tell them what happened, Amane Ubuyashiki appears to take his place at the meeting, as Kagaya's condition has become too severe. The Hashira kneel before her; Gyomei prays for Kagaya and Amane's wellbeing and she extends her gratefulness to them. She tells the Hashira that with Nezuko's resistance to sunlight, Muzan Kibutsuji will soon hunt her with renewed vigour, leading to a large confrontation in the future. She then speaks about the marks that manifested in Mitsuri and Muichiro during their battles, hoping they could explain how it happened.
She explains that during the Sengoku period, when the swordsmen using the first Breathing Style almost killed Muzan, special marks appeared on their bodies. The Hashira are shocked, never once hearing about this happening, and Amane answers it is because so little is known about them. What that is known is an account by a swordsman who used the first Breathing Style, which stated, "when the Marked one arrives, the Mark will appear on others around that person, as if in resonance". Amane tells the Hashira that the first to be marked is Tanjiro Kamado, but since he was unable to explain how it happened, she hopes Mitsuri and Muichiro can.
Excited to be on the spot, Mitsuri gives her explanation: "It hit me like WAAAAH! Like WHOOM! FWAAH! My heart and stuff was all BA-DUMP BA-DUMP and my ears rang like PING! CRICK-CRACK-POP!" The Ubuyashikis and the Hashira stare with bewilderment at her explanation, and the embarrassed Love Hashira quickly bows down and apologizes, wishing she could crawl into a hole and vanish. Muichiro speaks up and states that while he did not know about the mark, he can explain certain factors he remembered that could help them know more.
Muichiro explains that during his recent fight, he was paralyzed by a poison and used his breathing to slow its circulation. A boy attempting to save him was almost killed and his lost memories returned. Lost in his anger, he explains his heart rate must have exceeded 200 beats per minute and his body temperature rose to above 39°C. Shinobu is surprised to hear this, believing such conditions could have been fatal. Muichiro believes that with the harsh conditions on the body, surviving them separates those who can manifest it from those who can't. Amane asks how he determined his body temperature, to which he mentions he once had a fever of that temperature, and he felt the same way when the mark appeared.
Sanemi is surprised by its seeming simplicity; Giyu mentions his envy for his simple mind to believe such simple conditions but doesn't continue when the Wind Hashira confronts him. Shinobu believes all the Hashira must attain the mark and Gyomei also believes they can attain it, asking Amane to ease Kagaya's concerns. However, Amane adds one more caveat regarding the mark manifested and explains it is already too late for those who have it; something will happen to those who have it which cannot be avoided.
After Amane's leave, Giyu excuses himself; Sanemi confronts him for attempting to leave but Giyu states the six of them should talk, excluding him. Obanai questions his remarks, believing he isn't taking his duties as a Hashira seriously or perhaps suggesting he wants to train ahead of them. As he walks away, Sanemi yells at him to stop and Shinobu asks that he explain himself. Giyu simply claims he is different to them. Sanemi gets up and angrily asks if he is implying that he looks down on them, having heard the same phrase before. Mitsuri nervously stands between them to stop a potential fight but the situation is silenced by a loud clap from Gyomei, who orders them to sit back down and explains he has a proposal.
At the Butterfly Mansion, Hotaru arrives to deliver Tanjiro his sword. The swordsmith is breathing heavily behind his mask with visible sweat coming off it. Hotaru gives Tanjiro his sword and sits down at Goto's request. Tanjiro is amazed to see Kyojuro's tsuba on it. The swordsmith urges Tanjiro to unsheathe the blade, and Tanjiro is in awe by its appearance. Hotaru says that because it is made from high quality steel, it must been used previously by a strong swordsman. He notes that the blade has the single kanji for Slay (滅, Metsu?) carved on it and explains that the blade was forged before the Demon Slayer rankings was established and is why only the Hashira have the phrase Destroyer of Demons (惡鬼滅殺, Akki Messatsu?).
When Tanjiro asks why he couldn't see the kanji when he used it, Hotaru angrily answers it was because it had only been polished to its first stage when he used it. Even now, the pain of polishing it has not subsided, hence his exhaustive efforts to stand here now, and adds that he was further interrupted numerous times, while pulling Tanjiro's cheek. Goto explains that Tanjiro's own wounds are as bad as his to make him stop and Hotaru turns to face him, threatening the Kakushi. He then demands that Tanjiro give him a life time supply of mitarashi dango, to which Tanjiro agrees, before bidding the swordsmith goodbye when he leaves.
Goto asks about the rumours of his temper and the Demon Slayer notes that with his pain, Hotaru was actually calm today. Lying in the bed beside him, an annoyed Genya asks Tanjiro on why he is being noisy. Tanjiro attempts to apologize but is interrupted when Inosuke crashes through the window. Goto and Tanjiro reprimand him as Genya wishes he was placed elsewhere, while Inosuke only tells him that training to get stronger has begun. When Tanjiro asks for the details, Inosuke replies he does not know.
Special organized preparation known as Hashira Training commences, and all those ranked below the Hashira will be trained by them. While the Hashira usually do not train anyone but their Tsugukos, due to their many responsibilities, ever since Nezuko Kamado has been revealed to be resistant to sunlight, demon attacks have halted completely. Knowing the worst was to come, the Hashira have instead devoted themselves to performing their roles as security in the night. and training during the day.
Tanjiro and Zenitsu discuss the latter's time in Hashira Training, which he calls an awful experience, mentioning how he was forced to spar with someone stronger than himself. On the other hand, Tanjiro is excited at the prospect of becoming even stronger, causing Zenitsu to angrily gnaw on his forehead while screaming that they are not friends at this current moment. He bemoans that the only reason Tanjiro can imagine it as a helpful tool is because he is lying in a comfortable bed healing, whilst he must train now.
Before leaving, Zenitsu hears Tanjiro thank him, recalling his battle with Upper Four and how a technique he taught him had helped defeat the demon. Tanjiro uses this to motivate him into seeing Hashira Training as beneficial, but Zenitsu instead uses his words to make himself feel good about being skilled. A Kasugai crow then pecks Tanjiro on the head and gives him a letter.
At Hashira Training, Tengen yells at the trainees on the ground to keep running, despite them all being exhausted. Training begins with Tengen's basic stamina training, which is then followed by Mitsuri's lessons in enhancing flexibility, and then accompanied by Muichiro's teaching in high-speed movement. After this comes swordsmanship training with Obanai, lessons with Sanemi to survive an onslaught of attacks, and completed with strength training with Gyomei. Furthermore, sparring against the trainees for hours on end gives the Hashira the chance to improve their own strength, and it can also be beneficial when training is able to raise both the heart rate and body temperature to unlock the Mark. Those who have manifested it must also train to maintain it, and amongst the Corps, sharing the knowledge helps to boost everyone's abilities overall. However, one person is not training.
Giyu surpised to see Tanjiro enter his mansion.
Alone in his mansion, Giyu suddenly hears Tanijro's voice from outside. He lets himself in and explains what Hashira Training entails, to which Giyu mention he is already aware of what it is. Mentioning he can resume active duty in a week, he asks Giyu for lessons but is denied. Tanjiro notes that he smells angry, to which Giyu answers that he is angry at him for not mastering Water Breathing, believing he was supposed to be the next Water Hashira. Tanjiro notes that Sakonji had told him it wasn't unusual to switch one's own style into something new since Water Breathing is a rather basic style, but Giyu denies this and says that someone must take up the mantle, flatly denying he is the Water Hashira. He orders him to leave and walks away, leaving Tanjiro dismayed.
Giyu being followed by Tanjiro as he walks.
In a previous meeting with Kagaya, Tanjiro is told by the Oyakata to convince Giyu to join them all in training, asking that he talk to him. Giyu had always been one to turn his back and act solitary, asking that he be persistent in his efforts. Tanjiro, taking this at face value, accomplishes this by speaking to Giyu endlessly throughout the day, even waiting outside the bathroom to speak with him. After four days, Giyu gives in and tells Tanjiro that he did not finish Final Selection. Tanjiro asks if he means the selection at Mount Fujikasane and he confirms it. During his selection, there was a boy who lost his family to demons, like himself; Giyu tells him his name was Sabito, which shocks Tanjiro. They were both thirteen when they met and they bonded quickly. During Final Selection, Sabito was the only one to die, despite the fact that he killed all the mountain's demons almost singlehandedly.
Giyu adds that he was injured by the first demon he fought and Sabito ordered him to go to safety as he continued fighting. A week later, the selection had concluded. He questions if he can really be considered someone who passed the selection if he was saved and says he isn't worthy to be a Hashira. He believes he cannot stand beside his peers and that he doesn't deserve a place in the Corps, bringing Tanjiro to tears. Giyu tells him to have lesson with a true Hashira, believing that unlike himself, Sabito could have manifested the Mark, and asking Tanjiro to not waste time with him.
Tanjiro sympathizes with Giyu, knowing the pain to lose someone and the wish to die instead of them, a feeling worsened when that person had saved them. He recalls his time with Sabito and Makomo, despite knowing they were dead when they helped him; he is amazed that Sabito would have Giyu's age now had he lived and marvels at his feat of saving everyone at Final Selection. Had he survived, Sabito would have undoubtedly been an incredible swordsman, adding that it must also weigh on Giyu's frustration that he survived. He reminisces on Kyojuro, someone who sacrificed his life to save others; though he once thought he himself should have died, he remembers Inosuke's words telling him the Hashira believed in them. Knowing this, he wonders what he must say to Giyu, someone who doesn't call himself a Hashira despite his accomplishments.
He calls out to Giyu and asks if he would want to make use of Sabito's gift to him, a question that stops the swordsman in his tracks. He thinks back to a time when he and Sabito had training. Sabito had slapped Giyu in the face for wishing that he was dead, threatening to end their friendship then. He tells Giyu that his older sister had protected him from a demon, demanding he does not disrespect her death again. She sacrificed her life to give him a future. The familiar sting sits with Giyu, as Tanjiro becomes worried he had gone too far; he vividly remembers the pain of Sabito's reprimand, recalling the reason he forgot such a vital moment was because he previously didn't want to remember the pain of their loss.
Remembering his sister Tsutako and his friend Sabito once again, Giyu apologizes to them for his immaturity. Tanjiro grows concerned at Giyu's absent reaction, believing he only worsened his pain. Thinking quickly, he believes they can have an eating contest, since he cannot spar yet, and Giyu at an eating contest means he doesn't have to talk much. Suddenly, Giyu turns to him and says that he is late to his lessons. Tanjiro asks if he could partake in a soba eating contest with him, to which Giyu obliges. With his participation, Hashira Training is now in full swing.
Shinobu telling Kanao that she can't participate in Hashira Training.
Elsewhere, a visibly angry Shinobu rushes inside her room and sits down, attempting to calm herself. Kanao arrives and tells her she will now train with Sanemi. She asks if she could train with her following the lessons with Gyomei, but Shinobu explains she isn't participating in Hashira Training, inviting her to sit with her. Kanao is dismayed as she wanted to train with her, but Shinobu smiles upon hearing, seeing that she is making her own choices. Believing now is the time, Shinobu discusses with Kanao a plan to kill the demon who killed her sister.
A Kasugai crow flies into an open window and greets the demon Tamayo. He introduces himself as Kagaya's messenger and compliments her on her hiding, as Kagaya had since lost his ability to move since he began searching for her. Tamayo asks how he knew to find her, to which the crows explains he had followed the former owner of the house she is now, and that he had taken control of Yushiro's sight. He eases her concern by mentioning he has no reason to harm them, to which Tamayo then questions his purpose here, believing Kagaya will trick her. When she asks for Yushiro's whereabouts, the crows notes he is still upstairs.
Getting to his message, the crows explains that someone in the Demon Slayer Corps is highly knowledgeable about demon physiology and pharmacology, and Kagaya wants the two of them to study Nezuko's transformation together. Tamayo is shocked by this, wondering how a demon could enter the Demon Slayer Corps.
Tanjiro spars with Muichiro.
After making a full recovery, Tanjiro partakes in Hashira Training, happier than the others to be able to participate. Tengen greets his former companion and is impressed to learn he had killed another Upper Rank, before ordering him to run, which Tanjiro gleefully does. Hinatsuru, Makio, and Suma also extend their greetings to the Demon Slayer as they give out food. After ten days, Tanjiro passes the stamina training and has permission to move to the next stage. In Muichiro's mansion, he and Tanjiro spar at incredible speeds as Muichiro gives his lessons to attack quickly while sustaining strength. The other trainees are amazed to see someone match the Hashira.
After five days of training, Muichiro gives Tanjiro permission to proceed, his demeanour with him bright and cheery as Tanjiro is amazed at his own progress; when the other trainees ask for Muichiro's permission to proceed after two weeks, his previously aloof and unemotional face emerges, sternly criticizing them for their lack of progression. At Mitsuri's mansion, Tanjiro reunites with the Love Hashira, who is similarly ecstatic to see him. From the smell of her home, Tanjiro learns that she keeps bees to harvest honey, using it to top pancakes.
For her stage, participants must don skimpy attire and dance to music as part of her training, which is followed by flexibility exercises, involving Mitsuri using her potent strength to stretch the participants in painful positions. After completing flexibility training, Tanjiro arrives at Obanai's mansion, who has been ominously waiting for him. Tanjiro tries to proclaim his excitement but the Serpent Hashira silences him, angry at the happiness Mitsuri experienced during training with him, leaving the Demon Slayer anxious.
Obanai showing Tanjiro what his training stage looks like.
Inside his mansion, Obanai has numerous trainees tied to posts strewn in the training room. When asked if they were guilty of something to be treated so harshly, Obanai claims they are guilty of, "being weak, not learning, being a pain in the butt, and irritating me". Tanjiro spars with Obanai, using a wooden sword that would nonetheless hurt to be struck with. The Hashira uses his unusual fighting style to weave attacks between the tied victims and hit his opponent, all while Tanjiro must attack back without hitting anyone. Worsening his task is that he is able to hear the inner thoughts of the tied trainees, praying not to be hit.
Obanai's weaving strike hits Tanjiro.
Despite the difficult task, Tanjiro progresses and is able to attack more accurately than ever, even fending off Obanai. After four days, upon landing a strike on Obanai's clothing, the Serpent Hashira orders him to leave. On his way to Sanemi's mansion, Tanjiro is startled by Zenitsu suddenly grabbing at him, begging him to help his escape from the brutal stage. Sanemi himself then appears and grabs Zenitsu, angrily yelling at the trainee to choose between training or dying, before ordering Tanjiro to carry him and follow his lead.
As he remarks of his excitement to train, Sanemi tells him not to be carried away as he dislikes him. Tanjiro, remembering when Sanemi stabbed Nezuko multiple times in order to prove she was a danger, retorts that he doesn't like him either, earning the Hashira's ire. Sanemi's training involves participants sparring against him, a straightforward task that becomes immensely difficult due to Sanemi's brutality and refusal to relent, only stopping when they vomit blood or lose consciousness; Tanjiro remarks that even Obanai gave him more breaks. Sanemi is especially hard on Tanjiro, using any brief lapse in concentration to attack him, leaving his face covered in large bloody bruises.
Following his first day, Tanjiro slinks to his room, dismayed by his dismal training session, when he hears Genya's voice. Genya attempts to speak with his older brother but Sanemi claims he has does not have one, threatening to kill him if he speaks again, as Tanjiro watches the commotion.
Sanemi dismisses Genya's attempt to speak with him, using his lack of talent as an insult and claiming he can quit the Demon Slayer Corps. Watching his brother walking away, Genya attempts to apologize to him, saying he wanted to for a long time, but Sanemi again refuses to listen and continues to ignore him. Genya refuses his dismissal, stating he had fought hard to get to where he is now and even eaten a demon while doing so. Sanemi suddenly stops and glares menacingly at Genya, asking for confirmation that he heard him right.
The Hashira then vanishes from view in an instant, confusing Genya. Tanjiro bursts forth and attempts to pull his friend away as Sanemi tries to gouge his eyes out. The two crash through the wall, the sudden loud noise causing the frightful trainees to believe Sanemi has returned. Zenitsu asks Tanjiro on why he broke through the wall, just as he hears an ominous and torturous sound. As Sanemi walks to outside, which then causes Zenitsu to scream in fright, Tanjiro asks how he can possibly want to kill Genya. Sanemi dismisses his concern, knowing he cannot kill with the Corps' rules; he will instead brutalize him beyond his healing, willing to forgive him if he quits the Corps.
Tanjiro is angered by Sanemi's actions, claiming he cannot make him quit and reiterating that he previously said he doesn't have a brother, and therefore cannot choose Genya's decisions for himself. He refuses to let Sanemi interfere with Genya as he proved vital in the defeat of Upper Rank Four. Sanemi decides he will attack Tanjiro instead and lunges forth so quickly he can barely react, but the Hashira is surprised to see that Tanjiro has blocked his hand from hitting his chest. Tanjiro then twists himself to kick Sanemi in the head, shocking Zenitsu and causing Sanemi to drop him.
Genya warns Tanjiro as Sanemi has his turn to retaliate, kicking at him so quickly, his foot grazes Tanjiro's ear and cuts him. The Wind Hashira is impressed at his opponent's nerve and decides he will kill him. Genya pleads with him to leave Tanjiro alone but Zenitsu attempts to pull Genya away from the fight. Confused, Genya hears as Zenitsu states it is better to leave a quarrel, before saying that he pities him for having an older brother like Sanemi. However, he takes this as an insult and punches Zenitsu in the nose.
The brawl between Tanjiro and Sanemi soon involves the other trainees as they pull them apart. Tanjiro is scolded for his actions and training with the Wind Hashira is suspended, though Tanjiro is saddened he has seemingly worsened Genya and Sanemi's relationship. As Zenitsu and Tanjiro walk to Gyomei's stage, Tanjiro apologizes for ruining training, but Zenitsu is instead impressed he stood up to Sanemi, before ranting about the mountainous location of Gyomei's training. They reach a waterfall where trainees, including Inosuke chanting the Nenbutsu, are being pushed down by the torrent of water.
Zenitsu and Tanjiro are frightened by the scene when Gyomei speaks up from behind. They turn to see the Stone Hashira, bearing giant logs on his back, weighed down by clusters of rocks, standing barefoot atop fiery grounds, who tells them extinguishing the heart and mind can make even fires cold. He welcomes them to his training ground, as the two stand dumbfounded and shocked.
Gyomei teaches the trainees that the legs and hip are the most vital part of the body; by stabilizing the body with a firm base, it will lead to accurate attacks and strong defense. Their three tasks are to stand beneath the waterfall and withstand the pressure, carry three large logs, and finally, move a giant boulder one cho (358 feet). He believes his tasks are easy and straightforward. When Zenitsu passes out after hearing what he must do, Gyomei instructs Tanjiro to toss him into the cold river.
Zenitsu struggles to move in the water without shivering and even Tanjiro remarks the water is colder than the middle of winter. As Zenitsu leaves the water and realizes he is still cold, he notices several trainees hugging a rock; one of them, Murata, tells him the rock is warm. He immediately hugs it and is reminded of his mother's hug. Tanjiro notices Inosuke beneath the water, believing he is making good headway, but he soon notices Inosuke is silent and resuscitates his unconscious friend. Tanjiro then takes his turn under the waterfall, reciting the Nenbutsu chant to concentrate.
At the warm rocks, he chats with Murata, who comments his amazement seeing him and Inosuke, since it took him till the evening to even tolerate the cold. While he is now able to stand beneath the falls for one koku (~30 minutes), because he had been training for ten days, his new task is to move the logs. At a gathering where Tanjiro cooks fish for the trainees, Inosuke remarks about Gyomei, believing the Stone Hashira is the strongest member of the Demon Slayer Corps; Tanjiro adds that even Gyomei's scent is different to the other Hashira, thinking he might manifest the Mark soon.
Zenitsu interjects and doesn't believe Gyomei move the giant boulder one cho, and that he is only pretending just to torment them, only to see the Stone Hashira behind him pushing an even bigger boulder. When Tanjiro asks Zenitsu if he could one day be like Gyomei, Zenitsu attacks him for his high hopes in himself, which is worsened when Inosuke confidently claims he can finish Gyomei's training.
After completing the waterfall and log training, Tanjiro makes his first attempt to push the boulder, but even after breaking his slippers, he fails to move it. Because Gyomei's training isn't necessary, several trainees leave the mountain, to Tanjiro's dismay. During a break, Murata believes he knows why the Hashira don't have many Tsuguko; other trainees agree with their training being too harsh, with one commenting that some know they are too different to the Hashira and give up "like that blond guy". Murata remarks that the Hashira are amazing to do their training with ease, as Tanjiro is complimented for his food.
After six days, Tanjiro is still unable to move his boulder. Lying on the ground and panting heavily, he wonders what he is lacking and knows that demon attacks will continue soon, and so he must hurry. Dismayed his training still hasn't help him maintain his Mark, he is startled when Genya appears, asking if his mark is getting darker. Unable to contact him since his fight with Sanemi, and scolded by Gyomei, he explains he was not allowed to contact Sanemi but ignored the rule anyway. Genya thanks Tanjiro for protecting him before asking about his Mark again, which he confirms is darker than when he last saw him.
Seeing Genya is also doing boulder training, Tanjiro comments that the task seems impossible and is surprised to know Genya has moved it slightly. Genya asks him if he is doing Repetitive Action; when Tanjiro doesn't answer, he notes that Gyomei isn't a good teacher and explains that it involves doing a predetermined action to heighten concentration; he himself does by chanting the Nenbutsu. Tanjiro laughs and notes Gyomei does that too, as the Hashira watches them behind the trees.
Nakime tracking down the Demon Slayers and determining their locations and hideout.
Elsewhere, a Demon Slayer is followed by crawling demonic eyes, which bear the kanji 'four'. The Biwa Demon, Nakime, tells Muzan she has found sixty percent of the total number of Demon Slayers, but is yet to find Nezuko. Muzan is impressed by her progress and instructs her to search in a new area. As Nakime obliges, Muzan believes he will soon find Nezuko and Kagaya.
Through Genya's lesson on Repetitive Action, Tanjiro learns it enables one to open all their senses, and Genya is able to do it unlike Total Concentration Breathing. His and Gyomei's way involves remember a painful or anger-inducing memory, allowing them to increase their body temperature. Though Genya notes that while Tanjiro likely experienced something similar when he manifested his Mark, he and Gyomei have not.
Following Genya's advice, Tanjiro makes his first attempt at Repetitive Action by remembering the faces of his family; he then remembers Kyojuro's words, "Keep your heart burning", as he had always used his advice to concentrate himself. Initially, the boulder does not move, but by repeating the process to exert his full strength, Tanjiro's body feels the familiarity of gaining his Mark, causing the boulder to move slowly. As an amazed Zenitsu and Inosuke watch, Tanjiro concentrates on not stopping, using Gyomei's emphasis on his legs and hips to push. Following Tanjiro's lead, Inosuke motivates himself by thinking about tempura, giving him the drive to push his boulder. Zenitsu is angered he is the last to move his boulder but is surprised to suddenly see Chuntaro, crying while holding a letter.
Finally, Tanjiro moves his boulder one cho, completing Gyomei's training. He slumps over in utter exhaustion and dehydration as he wonders about his friends' whereabouts. He is suddenly greeted by Gyomei. Pouring water to quench the Demon Slayer's thirst, the Stone Hashira praises Tanjiro for not only completing his training, but his actions at the Swordsmith Village. Confused by his words, Gyomei explains that he had prioritized the swordsmiths' lives over Nezuko's. Tanjiro corrects him by stating it was Nezuko who made the decision as he couldn't act in the moment, believing he isn't worthy of his respects.
Gyomei ponders on this; he had long held the belief that children are not only pure and innocent, but weak, dishonest, and selfish, but he does not believe Tanjiro is any of those qualities. Tanjiro tells Gyomei he had wanted his path to be without mistakes, but since he can't know what lies ahead, someone will always help him, resulting in him getting by without making a mistake. Denying Gyomei's respect for him, he instead thanks him for the water and training. Gyomei tells him he now has no doubt, and that regardless of what others say, he respects him. Unsure of what he means, Tanjiro listens to Gyomei as he tells his story.
He once raised nine orphans at a temple; despite having no parents, they all lived harmoniously and cared for each other. One night, a child disobeyed the rules, left the temple at night, and encountered a demon. He offered the lives of Gyomei and the other children to save himself and extinguished the temple's wisteria incense. Upon entering the temple, it immediately killed four of the children. Gyomei attempted to protect the others, but they ran and ignored him, as his weak voice and skinny appearance didn't give them hope he could save them; the only child who listened was the youngest, a girl named Sayo.
The demon killed the children who ran away before attacking Gyomei, who had no choice but to fight back. Despite his immense disgust at his own violence, Gyomei punched the demon's head with all his might, crushing it and beating the creature into submission; he remarks he could have never known his strength had he not fought back. He continued fighting till dawn arrived, risking his life to save Sayo but at the loss of the others. When people came to the scene, the traumatized Sayo said, "That man is a monster! Everyone... he... killed everyone!"
As a horrified Tanjiro listens on, Gyomei notes that it was natural for a young girl only four years of age to be confused. Despite always longing to have Sayo's gratitude for saving her, Gyomei believes children simply concern themselves above all else. He was imprisoned for their murders and sentenced to death, only avoiding his fate due to Kagaya's intervention. Since then, he had become a deeply distrustful person, and naturally, he also didn't believe in Tanjiro. But he never ran, nor looked away, or lied. He was straightforward and resolute. Though it sounds trivial, Gyomei does not believe most people are like that, having seen what people are truly like. Calling Tanjiro a "special kid", Gyomei promises to help him stay on the right path.
Touched by his sincerity, Tanjiro sheds a few tears as he promises to do his best and thanks Gyomei. The Stone Hashira gently pats him on the head, reminiscent of his time with Sayo, and declares his training with him now complete.
While eating with Tanjiro and Inosuke, Genya remarks that despite everything that has happened, Gyomei is a good person; he didn't make him his Tsuguko due to his lack of talent, but because he ate demons, he instead made him his apprentice. Gyomei had him examined by Shinobu, who was understandly displeased and lectured him on eating demons any time they met. Genya comments that with Tanjiro's similarly stubborn demeanor, Shinobu would have lectured him too, though she doesn't show it. Tanjiro reassures him that she is simply worried about his health, before telling him he will train with Giyu now, asking if he could come along. Genya tells him he still hasn't moved his boulder one cho, leading Inosuke to taunt him about his lack of breathing and causing the two to fight.
Before leaving, Tanjiro had wanted to tell Genya something about Sanemi. On his way to Giyu's place, Tanjiro notices Zenitsu atop his boulder and asks if he had moved it, to which he answers he has not. Tanjiro explains he is moving to his next training but is concerned about him, noticing he hasn't been speaking much. Zenitsu bids him good luck and states he has simply achieved clarity. Worried for his friend, he asks Zenitsu if he can do anything to help, but Zenitsu tells he should do what he must. He eases his concern and thanks him for his kindness, but what he is facing now is something he must do.
Making his way through a bamboo forest, Tanjiro ponders on Zenitsu and Nezuko, who he had left alone at the start of Hashira Training, believing she is lonely and misses him. He soon arrives at a building that indicates Giyu's place is nearby. Outside in the yard, Sanemi and Giyu spar; Sanemi uses Wind Breathing, First Form: Whirlwind Dust Cutter and attacks Giyu, who blocks the blow but sustains a crack in his wooden sword. Tanjiro is stunned to see the Wind Hashira attacking so quickly but realizes he is able to see the two fight. As they trade blows, Sanemi taunts Giyu for his statement that he is different to them, dismaying Tanjiro since he knows why Giyu had said that statement.
Sanemi and Giyu snap each others' wooden blades.
The Water Hashira uses Water Breathing, Fourth Form: Striking Tide but narrowly misses his opponent's leg. Sanemi retaliates with Fifth Form: Cold Mountain Wind and Giyu defends himself with Seventh Form: Drop Ripple Thrust, causing their wooden blades to shatter. Without weapons, Sanemi proposes fighting bare-handed, but Tanjiro runs in and stands before him. Still angry at Tanjiro, he reminds the Demon Slayer he is supposed to keep away from him but is probably now following him. Tanjiro asks if they are fighting over ohagi and claims he can them some. Sanemi angrily asks if he is joking but Tanjiro answers earnestly since he knows he likes ohagi.
Giyu is surprised to know this, as Tanjiro explains he had caught the scent of ohagi fillings at Sanemi's place, and whenever he came back, he smelt green tea and ohagi. As Giyu asks if he indeed likes ohagi, Tanjiro then asks if he enjoys it either coarse or fine and claiming that he loves his grandmother's batch, only for Tanjiro to be punched in the face by the annoyed Wind Hashira.
Tanjiro awakens to see Giyu beside him, asking for Sanemi's whereabouts. The Water Hashira answers he had angrily stormed off.  When Tanjiro asks why they were fighting, Giyu notes they were just sparring, as are the other Hashira, hence the wooden swords. Tanjiro apologizes for interrupting their training but Giyu does not mind, since Sanemi was angry at him the entire time and he couldn't express himself. Now knowing his favorite food, Giyu reasons he can keep ohagi in his pocket and befriend Sanemi, which Tanjiro thinks is a pleasant idea, and perhaps they can all get along now.
Walking alone, Sanemi questions Tanjiro's antics, believing he is acting foolishly. He suddenly hears something rustling in the bushes nearby and lunges forward to grab it. In his hand is a demon's crushed eye, bearing a kanji on it, which confuses him. Outside the Ubuyashiki Estate, someone steps inside to meet Kagaya. Despite his bandages covering his eyes, Kagaya turns to his visitor and states it is the first time they have met. He calls out his visitor's name, Muzan Kibutsuji, who in turn addresses Kagaya and remarks he is in an unsightly condition.
Despite his blindness, Kagaya knows Muzan now stands before him, the demon his clan and the Demon Slayers have pursued for a thousand years. He asks Amane to describe him; Amane tells him the demon appears as a man in his mid to late twenties, his eyes are light pink and his pupils are cat-like slits. Kagaya remarks he had expected him to appear, believing Muzan's anger towards his clan has now driven him to kill him personally. Muzan confirms this, disgusted by the Ubyashikis' continual intervention during the time he has existed, but now, he finds their leader in such a deplorable state. He insults Kagaya as loathsome, indescribably ugly, and already with the scent of a corpse.
Kagaya agrees with his sentiment; six months ago, his physician had only given him days left to live then, yet he has survived until now, spurred on due to his burning anger to defeat him. Muzan only retorts all his efforts will be futile when he kills him. The Oyakata tells the demon that they are actually of the same bloodline, but being born a millennia ago, he wouldn't have known that. Muzan does not care to know and asks why Kagaya is saying this, to which Kagaya answers he is the reason for his family's curse. For the Ubuyashiki clan to bear such a monster, the bloodline was cursed so that its children would grow weak and die early.
As it faced extinction, the clan was approached by a priest, who explained that a demon was born in its bloodline. By dedicating themselves to killing the demon, the clan would survive. Kagaya adds that he married Amane because her family was brought up in priesthood. After the priest's advice, the Ubuyashikis lived slightly longer, and yet, none had lived past the age of 30. Muzan disregards his story and questions if his sickness has reached his brain. He claims his history is irrelevant to the now and adds that the heavens have never punished him despite killing thousands of people; in his thousand year long existence, he has never seen the gods or Buddha.
Kagaya then asks Muzan on what he dreams; what has he desired for his entire life. Muzan ponders on the strange situation; he has the Demon Slayer Corps' leader before him, yet he feels no hatred, but nonetheless, looking around the Ubuyashiki mansion and seeing Nichika and Hinaki playing blissfully unaware of him, he feels an odd familiarity, relieved yet disgusted. When Muzan does not respond, Kagaya offers to answer for him; Muzan's dream is eternity and to be undying. The demon agrees and mentions he will achieve it by finding Nezuko Kamado.
When Kagaya claims it will not come true, Muzan brushes his confidence in hiding Nezuko, as he has all the time to look for her when he soon dies. Kagaya states he is mistaken; he knows that the only thing that could be eternal is human feelings. Muzan denies his statement as rubbish but Kagaya continues speaking; for a thousand years, the Demon Slayer Corps has persevered despite its numerous deaths. What he has just disregarded as rubbish is proof that human feelings are undying; the refusal to forgive those who unjustly take lives, and up till now, no one has forgiven Muzan for his actions.
He remarks that Muzan has metaphorically stepped on the tiger's tail, and by doing so, he is inviting the dragon's wrath. "It" has remained asleep until he had awakened it, its eyes fixated on Muzan and will never let him escape. Kagaya states that killing him is futile as he is of little importance, before taunting Muzan for his inability to understand the eternity of human feelings, as demons will all perish should he dies. Now visibly angered at his taunts, Muzan stares silently at Kagaya, who realizes he has now captured the demon's attention. Finally, Kagaya adds that while his death is meaningless, it is not insignificant; the Demon Slayer Corps and the Hashira are fond of him, and should he die, they will be more motivated than ever before.
Muzan asks if the Oyakata has finished speaking, revealing his hand's claws ready to kill him, to which Kagaya confirms he is finished, thanking Muzan for listening to him for the entire time. At that moment, a Kasugai Crow announces an emergency summons at the Ubuyashiki Estate; Sanemi, Obanai, Mitsuri, Muichiro, Shinobu, Giyu and Tanjiro become horrified at the news and race to reach Kagaya.
In the previous Hashira meeting, Sanemi draws attention to the problem of Kagaya being unguarded, believing that at least two Hashira need to be protecting him. He and the others ask Gyomei if something can be done to change this problem. Gyomei, having served Kagaya for the longest, since he was nineteen, only responds that he had been asking that same question for eight years, and Kagaya had always denied protection each time. He had insisted that the Hashira shouldn't be wasted on him, worrying them greatly. Shinobu adds that she had heard the Ubuyashikis had never had a bodyguard of any sort throughout their history.
The Ubuyashiki Estate blows up.
Sanemi hurries through the forest, towards the Ubuyashiki Mansion. As he catches sight of it, a massive explosion destroys the mountainside, to Sanemi's sheer horror. The explosion is noticed by the rest of the Hashira, horrifying them all; Tanjiro realizes the scent of blood and burning flesh is in the air. Caught in the center of the explosion, Muzan begins to regenerate as he curses Kagaya.
In his final moments, with a smile of seemingly blissful unawareness, he has killed himself, his wife, and his two daughters Hinaki and Nichika present in the explosion. He knew he had laid a trap but could have never imagine one of this scale, as he thought to mix steel spikes as shrapnel to maximize its effectiveness and slow his healing as much as possible. Despite the trap, Muzan knows that Kagaya has something else planned, sensing that people, most likely the Hashira, must be close by all across the mountain. He thinks back to the Oyakata's final moments; the young man had managed to hide all his anger and bloodlust without Muzan ever noticing anything, something he begrudgingly commends him for.
Muzan is caught in bramble branches of demonic flesh.
As Muzan tries to put his mind towards regenerating quicker, flesh seeds appear around him. They suddenly burst into giant black bramble branches. He realizes they must be someone's Blood Demon Art but is immobilized. However, the spikes don't harm him severely and Muzan believes he can simply absorb them to escape. Tamayo unexpectedly appears and stabs her hand through Muzan's stomach, who is angered at her sudden appearance and asks her reason. Tamayo mentions the flesh seeds belong to the man in Asakusa he turned into a demon. He realizes she must have hidden herself with another Blood Demon Art, using Yushiro's talisman. She tells Muzan the drug in her fist absorbed by him will turn demons back into humans. Muzan claims such an action is impossible but she states it became possible with someone's help.
Muzan curses her stubbornness and makes the claim that her hatred of him is unjust, reminding her that she alone was responsible for the deaths of her family. She tearfully responds all she wanted was to survive her disease and see her children grow up. The Demon King mentions she had eaten other people after that and states she had fun doing so, viciously grabbing her head and stabbing her eye. Tamayo does not deny that she has killed and states that in order to atone for those deaths, she and Muzan will die together. She calls out to Gyomei, the first to arrive at the scene. With a single swing of his flail, he decapitates Muzan.
Kagaya Ubuyashiki is dead at the age of 23. The progression of his illness had eventually rendered him immobile and left him bedridden; until that day happened, Kagaya had visited the graves of the fallen Demon Slayer Corps member, never missing even a single day.
Gyomei meets Kagaya for the first time.
Gyomei recalls the first time he met Kagaya, when the Oyakata was fourteen and he himself was eighteen; it has surprised Gyomei to know that someone of his character was younger than himself. At the time, Kagaya immediately knew that he had protected the children he was accused of killing, causing the former monk to bow in gratefulness; Gyomei remembers even back then, Kagaya spoke in a way that people wanted to hear, and his solemness remained till his last moments. During the last time he personally spoke with the Stone Hashira, Kagaya predicts that Muzan will come within five days, instructing Gyomei to kill him while he uses himself as bait.
When asked about his certainty, Kagaya only responds it is just his instincts. It is revealed that the Ubuyashiki clan not only possessed their special calming voice, they had instinctual precognition that allowed them to see the future, using it to become wealthy and avoid crisis many times as a result. Kagaya knows the other Hashiras will not accept his decision of self-sacrifice, asking the Hashira he has known for the longest to carry out his last wish. Gyomei obliges, to the gratitude of Kagaya, who finally requests he does not let any of "his children" die.
Gyomei manages to successfully behead Muzan, assisted by Tamayo keeping the demon still. As Kagaya had predicted, Muzan does not die and regenerates his head completely, which does not come as a surprise to Gyomei. He recalls his late leader's words that sunlight is the only way to kill the Demon King and he surmises from the sound of his healing that Muzan's regeneration surpasses that of any demon he has faced; even after the damage he had taken from the explosion, he remains extremely powerful. He nonetheless promises to restrain him till dawn.
Gyomei tells the rest of the Hashira that they are now facing Muzan himself.
Muzan attempts to ensnare the Stone Hashira with Blood Demon Art: Black Blood, Brambles, but the attack is deflected when Gyomei performs Stone Breathing, Third Form: Stone Skin. Sanemi soon arrives and angrily asks what has become of Kagaya, to the relief of Gyomei, as do the rest of the Hashira, who all call out to Kagaya. Gyomei announces they are now facing Muzan Kibutsuji himself, to the shock of all the Hashira as none of them have ever directly encountered him. Tanjiro, the only one present who has personally faced him, angrily calls out to him.
Doors open to the Infinity Castle, trapping the Demon Slayers.
All the Hashira use their respective Breathing Styles in order to cut Muzan down: Muichiro uses Mist Breathing, Fourth Form: Shifting Flow Slash, Shinobu uses Insect Breathing, Butterfly Dance: Caprice, Obanai uses Serpent Breathing, First Form: Winding Serpent Slash, Mitsuri uses Love Breathing, Fifth Form: Swaying Love, Wildclaw, Giyu uses Water Breathing, Third Form: Flowing Dance, Sanemi uses Wind Breathing, Seventh Form: Gale, Sudden Gusts and Tanjiro attacks with Hinokami Kagura: Sunflower Thrust, but as they converge on the demon, Muzan only smiles with an eerie expression.
Giant doors suddenly appear and slide open under the Demon Slayers, causing all of them to plummet into the Infinity Castle. Muzan mocks them for believing they had him cornered, declaring they will now fall into hell and that he will kill them all. Tanjiro responds back that the only one to go to hell will be Muzan and he promises to kill him. Muzan answers his challenge: "Then do it if you can! Tanjiro Kamado!!".
