Giyu catches Tanjiro to save him from falling.
As he falls into the Infinity Castle, Tanjiro is confused by his surroundings; directions and gravity are mixed around and he wonders if the place is Muzan's Blood Demon Art. Knowing Tamayo will not be able to resist him for long, he resolves to take down Muzan as quickly as possible. He quickly sees the bottom of where he is falling and attempts to grab a ledge to save himself; though he fails, an arm successfully reaches him and pulls Tanjiro to safety, revealed to be Giyu. As he thanks his friend, a demon suddenly attempts to attack him, killed when he uses Water Breathing, First Form: Water Surface Slash.
A demon horde attacks Tanjiro.
Doors open from behind Tanjiro and a large horde of demons converges on them. As Tanjiro uses Water Breathing, Sixth Form: Whirlpool, Giyu uses Fourth Form: Striking Tide; together, they slaughter all the attacking demons in rapid succession. Afterwards, an unnerved Tanjiro remarks that Giyu is incredible, quickly knowing what form he would use just from his slight movement and coordinating an attack that wouldn't accidentally hit him, as Giyu regards him with an unimpressed expression. The two make their way through the castle.
Obanai lands down and is attacked by numerous demons, which he kills using Serpent Breathing, Fifth Form: Slithering Serpent; he demands they all stay away from Mitsuri, who is ecstatic to see him save her. When he asks if she is alright, Mitsuri can barely contain her joy when she answers, before they proceed through the Infinity Castle together.  As Gyomei and Muichiro make their path, quickly cutting down any demon in their wake, Muichiro makes note of the sheer number of demons. Gyomei believes each demon is as powerful as a Lower Rank; the job of the numerous demons is to wear them down.
When Muichiro asks for Kagaya's status, Gyomei only tells him he had met a dignified end. Knowing Kagaya would have never let a demon get close, he asks the Stone Hashira if he had used himself as bait, to which Gyomei confirms he had. Accepting that Kagaya knew his limited time remaining, the Mist Hashira remembers when Kagaya had visited him as he lay in bed following a demon's attack, never leaving his side; he had also done the same to other members of the Corps. Muichiro becomes enraged that Muzan not only took his brother but their father figure, promising to make him suffer before killing him, a sentiment the equally angry Gyomei agrees with.
A furious Sanemi grieves Kagaya's death.
Sitting by himself on a wooden platform, Sanemi laments his inability to save Kagaya; when a demon attacks him, he easily slashes it to pieces without looking. Numerous more appear and converge on him, but the tearful and furious Sanemi, grieving his master's death, demands they all come to him and promising to kill each one of them. Elsewhere, Inosuke makes his way through the castle while slaughtering any demon he encounters, which he sees as the perfect way to test his training. Genya makes his way through the endless halls, confused by his surroundings and wondering if everyone else and Sanemi is alright.
Zenitsu, after hearing something in the distance, wonders if Muzan is close by, promising to never forgive him. Shinobu, after walking through a hallway, suddenly smells blood. She opens a door and sees a demon surrounded by numerous bloody corpses. Doma, upon noticing he has a visitor, remarks that Shinobu appears young and tasty, promising to thank Nakime for making his night.
Kanae tells Shinobu to quit the Demon Slayer Corps to live a normal life.
As Kanae Kocho lays dying in Shinobu's arms, she begs her younger sister to quit the Demon Slayer Corps. She knows she is trying too hard but believes that perhaps she too also wants to live a normal life and eventually grow old. Shinobu tearfully rejects this and answers she will never quit until she avenges her. She asks for what kind of demon it was who attacked her, adding that she could never live a normal life again with her death. Kanae answers the demon appears to have blood on his head; the memories of her sister's last moments in her mind as Doma greets her.
Kanae describes Doma as always grinning and laughing, speaking with a calm and kind voice, evident when he introduces himself. When one of his victims calls out to Shinobu for help, Doma chastises her for interrupting their meeting and swings at her with his Blood Demon Art. Shinobu rushes forward and takes the woman in her arms, as Doma grows impressed with her speed and wonders if she is a Hashira. However, when she asks the woman if she is alright, she suddenly falls to pieces.
Stunned by the gruesome scene she just witnessed, Shinobu stares blankly as Doma tells her to leave the woman's body, promising to eat it later. She turns to face him as she remembers Kanae mentioning her killer wields a pair of sharp fans, just as Doma reveals his weapons. The demon introduces himself as the leader of the Eternal Paradise Faith; his role is to make with those faithful to him happy and that he will devour her without wasting anything. As Shinobu realizes Doma is the demon who killed Kanae, she retorts that the woman wasn't happy pleading for her life, only for Doma to answer that he did "help" her; by killing her, she is no longer in pain or afraid.
Shinobu responds that Doma's actions sicken her.
He believes that because everyone fears death, it is his role to eat them, taking everything they were in him to "save" them. Shinobu tells Doma that his actions sicken her, surprising him with her harsh and prickly personality despite never meeting her before. Believing something painful has happened to her, he opens his ears for her to speak. The Insect Hashira answers what she feels isn't just painful; he has killed her sister, grabbing her haori and demanding he remember where he saw it.
Shinobu attacks with Dance of the Bee Sting: True Flutter, as Doma retaliates with Frozen Lotus.
Doma realizes the haori belongs to his former opponent who uses Flower Breathing; he describes Kanae as kind and cute, adding that he regrets not being able to eat her, just as Shinobu attacks him without warning. Using Insect Breathing, Dance of the Bee Sting: True Flutter, she stabs Doma in his left eye. The Upper Rank compliments her since he was unable to stop the blow, just as he retaliates with Blood Demon Art: Frozen Lotus. The extremely cold attack freezes part of her clothing and face, as Shinobu backs away and remarks that the air is so cold, it could freeze her lungs.
Though he commends Shinobu for her speed, Doma calls her attack pathetic for not beheading him. Shinobu responds that she knows this but questions if he is aware about the use of poison. Suddenly, pain strikes Doma in the head and his skin begins to decay. Shinobu, about to find out if her poison can work on an Upper Rank, remembers Kanae and hopes she can succeed. Doma falls to his knees in severe pain and vomits blood, remarking that the poison is more powerful than the one she had used on Mount Natagumo, disappointing Shinobu to realize that demons do share their information, making poison a double-edged sword.
Shinobu prepares to face Doma.
His coughing eventually slows and he gets up to face her, revealing he had successfully decomposed the poison in his body and offering her a sarcastic apology. He makes note of the sound her sword made when she sheathed it and surmises it is where she changes the poison she uses. Doma becomes excited to face a user of poison and believes he can get used to the pain, asking if she has more planned for him. Shinobu, having anticipated he would survive her initial attack, draws her blade to face Upper Rank Two.
Doma as a human child.
Doma recalls his past; born with rainbow-colored eyes and white hair, he was believed to be special and connected to the gods. His parents, whom he considered dim-witted, arranged a cult with him at the head called the Eternal Paradise Faith; despite this, he never heard the gods' voice and simply played along. Worshippers flocked to Doma to repent their issues and problems in life, hoping for advice. However, even at a young age, the unemotional Doma found it annoying that adults had come to seek wisdom from a child.
When they begged him to guide them to paradise, he cried, believing that paradise, the gods and Buddha were a fairy tale that never existed and confused as to why people wouldn't believe they were all destined to die and rot, pitying them for their inability to see reality. Doma believes he was born to make it his duty to make these people happy, by devouring them whole.
After a fifth stab on his hand fails to hurt him, Doma quickly heals himself of Shinobu's poison, before asking if she is okay after noticing she is breathing heavily. Shinobu realizes the true strength of an Upper Rank, noting Doma's resistance and the inability of her poisons to work on him. He tells her that her lungs' cells are dying after accidentally inhaling his Blood Demon Art, now making it dangerous to breathe. She then decides to use multiple blows to poison him with a larger dosage.
Doma slashes Shinobu as she retreats.
Shinobu uses Insect Breathing, Dance of the Dragonfly: Compound Eye Hexagon and rushes forward, stabbing Doma six times. He remarks that the Insect Hashira might be the fastest one he has fought, but as she backs away, Shinobu bleeds profusely, realizes she herself was also slashed in return before she could notice. Doma taunts her as she collapses to the floor in pain, mentioning that she could have easily cut off his head with her immense speed but can't due to her small frame. As blood falls on her hands, she sees just how small they are.
She remembers that she never grew taller, lamenting that she could have killed demons the usual way had she grown a bit more. Shinobu knows larger hands and legs meant more muscle and that it was a distinct advantage. She recalls that Kanae too was of a dainty frame despite being taller than her, and remarks that Gyomei has it easy with his strength, putting others at ease when he fight. Shinobu remembers Kanae's last moments with her, telling her that she would likely lose to Doma too.
Kanae's spirit appears before the injured Shinobu, telling her to stand. Shinobu believes she no longer can after losing so much blood, and with her left lung damaged by Doma's attack, she cannot breathe normally as well. Kanae declares this irrelevant and states she will win with the right resolve to kill him no matter the sacrifice, noting that she promised to her and to Kanao. Remembering their younger sister, Shinobu crouches down while Doma approaches her, noting the slashes he gave was only half-hearted, making it very painful for her. Kanae urges her younger sister to keep trying, causing her to stand up and surprising the Upper Rank. As she stares at Doma, Shinobu starts to cough blood, prompting Doma to laugh that the blood in her lungs is causing her to do so.
Shinobu evades Doma's slash and stabs him in the neck.
Resolving to behead Shinobu to end her pain, he tells her to give up, claiming she is already beyond saving. Instead, Shinobu makes a last stand, and using Insect Breathing, Dance of the Centipede: Hundred-Legged Zigzag, she speeds towards the Upper Rank to attack him. Doma is shocked at this feat, noting the destroyed bridge from the impact of her feet; he tries to slash her in response but is unable to make contact, only managing to slice her haori. Shinobu crouches down and launches into the air, driving her sword through Doma's neck and forcing his body into the ceiling in one final thrust.
Shinobu and Kanae's parents are killed.
Shinobu remembers her childhood, once believing that happiness was an endless road throughout life. That belief was shattered when a demon entered her home and killed both her parents, leaving her and Kanae orphaned. They were saved however by Gyomei Himejima, who had arrived and quickly defeated the demon. Shinobu realized that though her happiness was forever destroyed, other people's weren't, and the sisters resolved to defeat demons and prevent others from suffering the same fate as them.
She and Kanae made a promise to each other to both be Demon Slayers to do so. The two believed that despite their weak strength, stopping one demon could save dozens of people, and stopping an Upper Rank could save hundreds. It wasn't a matter of whether they could or could not, because some things in life necessitated doing.
Recalling the time when Tanjiro had asked if she was angry, she states she has been so for a long time, remembering her parents' death, her sister's death, and the deaths of all her Tsugukos before Kanao. She remembers Aoi, Sumi, Kiyo and Naho, how their families too were killed. Most of all, she is incensed at her poison's inability to hurt Doma. Her swords slips from Doma's neck, causing her to fall, but he uses his ice to catch her and pulls Shinobu into a hug.
Doma pulling Shinobu into a hug.
Doma commends Shinobu for her admirable efforts, impressed that a weak girl could do so much. Though she is not talented like Kanae, she has done well as a Demon Slayer and calls it miraculous that she isn't dead yet. It was futile to kill him, and yet she was foolish enough to try anyways, calling her fruitless endeavour the folly and wonder of humanity. Declaring that she is now worthy to be eaten and they can live together forever, Doma asks for the Insect Hashira's last words; Shinobu bitterly tells him, "Go to Hell!"
Doma absorbs Shinobu's body.
Kanao opens the door to the cult room and looks up to see Doma clutching her in the roof. Shinobu attempts to signal Kanao with her hand, but Doma notices it. As she watches, Doma breaks Shinobu's body in his arms, to Kanao's horror, killing her and causing her sword to fall from her hand. She desperately leaps upwards to use Flower Breathing, Fourth Form: Crimson Hanagoromo but misses when Doma escapes and lands onto the floor. The demon advises her not to attack him in the middle of absorbing someone, causing Kanao to seethe with rage.
Doma fails to taunt her into fighting him, wondering if Shinobu had signalled with her hands. He asks if Kanao was told about his powers, impressed that Shinobu only conveyed it in a moment. As he pats her disappearing head, the demon notes that the Hashira tried her best despite it being futile; he comments favourably about his night as "such fine feasts keep showing up one after another." As she stares at Upper Two, Kanao internalizes the feeling that somehow, the people she cares about will be alive tomorrow, and yet, it remains a fleeting hope that she cannot promise with certainty. "Why do people believe such things?"
Zenitsu approaches a room and calls for the individual inside to come out. They only respond that Zenitsu's beckoning is the improper address to a senior. Kaigaku walks out and taunts him for being as shabby as ever, but Zenitsu responds that seeing him now as a demon, he no longer recognizes Kaigaku as his senior.
As Tanjiro and Giyu run through the Infinity Castle, the former nearly falls through an opened floor, only barely managing to grab the ledge and save himself. As Giyu warns him to keep aware and alert, Tanjiro remarks it is as if the castle is alive, actively trying to separate him from Giyu. Knowing he must reach Muzan and the rest of the Corps' members, he then realizes Tamayo is running out of time, and yet they don't know where Muzan is.
A Kasugai crow then calls out the announcement that Shinobu is now dead, killed in a battle against Upper Rank Two. Upon hearing it, Tanjiro wells up with tears thinking about Kanao and the girls of the Butterfly Mansion. At the same time, Giyu notices the crow has a piece of paper attached to its neck, remarking that messages are being sent rather quickly.
Kiriya Ubuyashiki, the new Oyakata of the Demon Slayer Corps.
Similar pieces of paper, talismans of Yushiro's Blood Demon Art, appears on the head of Kiriya Ubuyashiki and his sister Kanata and Kuina. Kuina confirms Shinobu's death to Kiriya and notes the remaining Hashira are alive. He asks if she is the only one to have faced an Upper Rank and Kuina answers she is not; he then asks Kanata if all the crows sent with Yushiro's vision talismans have reached half of the Demon Slayers, to which she answers they have not.
Being the eldest son, Kiriya has now taken the mantle of Oyakata at the age of eight. Despite the deaths of his parents and sister, Kiriya does not mourn them and instead focuses on the mission, having no time to shed tears. Kuina and Kanata have also pushed their grief aside to help him. His deceased elder sisters were Nichika and Hinaki, who never left their parents' side.
As a father, Kagaya was strict in rearing his children due to his short life, quickly raising them into adulthood; Amane was similarly firm as well. With his death, Kiriya is now the leader of the Demon Slayer Corps. Due to their lacking information, Kiriya orders the crows to spread as many talismans as possible. Kuina confirms Muzan's location has not change and the Hashira are spread thin; he orders them to head north. Kuina adds that the two Demon Slayers currently facing Upper Ranks are Kanao and Zenitsu, who is facing Upper Rank Six.
Zenitsu informing Kaigaku of Jigoro's death.
Kaigaku claims that Zenitsu has not changed. "You're still a shabby, little runt. Still weak." He asks if he is now a Hashira and if he is still only able to use the first form. Zenitsu responds by noting Kaigaku's excitement in attaining the lowest position of the Upper Ranks, a rank he has taken that is only meant to fill a blank spot. Surprised, Kaigaku laughs at his new ability to talk back at him. Zenitsu asks for why he had become a demon, why someone poised to acquire Thunder Breathing would choose to become a demon, before angrily revealing that Jigoro had committed seppuku because of his defection.
He explains that during seppuku, another person must behead the condemned to prevent prolonged pain. Yet, Jigoro chose to slit his stomach instead of his throat to atone. He died in agony and alone because the wielders of Thunder Breathing had produced a demon. Kaigaku laughs off the news and mockingly asks if he should repent, claiming that he does not care about anyone who doesn't value him. He will always serve those who know his worth and is happy that Jigoro is dead because he wouldn't annoint him his sole successor despite everything he did. "The old bastard said he would make me joint successor with scum like you."
Zenitsu evades Kaigaku's attack.
As he insults their trainer as a senile old man, Zenitsu rejects his words. "If I'm scum, then you're trash! I feel sorry for Grandpa for having such pathetic successors... I can only do the first form and you can do everything except that!" Angered that he would claim they are the same, Kaigaku draws his blade and uses Thunder Breathing, Fourth Form: Distant Thunder. Zenitsu suddenly rushes past him and claims he is too slow. To the Upper Rank's shock, Zenitsu has already slit his neck, with the demon noting that he now moves like a completely different person.
Kaigaku recalls his encounter with Kokushibo.
Kaigaku remembers his encounter with Upper Rank One, believing it was not shameful to kneel before an overwhelmingly strong opponent. To him, as long as he remains alive, it would all work out in the end. It does not matter if dirt is rubbed in his face, he is forced to drink dirty water, or people curse him for stealing money; what mattered was that he was alive and that someday, he would succeed. Kokushibo asks if Kaigaku wants to become a demon and get stronger, drawing blood from his hand to drink. If Muzan recognizes him, he will transform into a demon.
He explains that to become one takes time, a process that is longer the stronger a person is; Kokushibo himself took three days to transform. Additionally, to counteract the effects of Total Concentration, much blood must be drunk, and rarely does a person's body not allow them to become a demon. Kokushibo tells the Demon Slayer to be grateful for the blood he received, threatening to behead him should he spill a drop. He reminisces on the intense fear he felt as he put the blood into his mouth, as if his cells were screaming and crying.
Compared to facing Zenitsu now, the Upper Rank is not worried. Despite gaining some strength, he believes Zenitsu remains a worthless coward, crying without dignity or perseverance. He recalls when Jigoro had offered to make them both his successors and curses his former trainer for comparing him to his junior. As he angrily declares that they both deserved to die, Kaigaku uses Thunder Breathing, Second Form: Rice Spirit, attacking Zenitsu with five consecutive slashes and injuring his face. Zenitsu remarks that with the consecutive attacks, Kaigaku has already eaten much victims, believing he can't tell good from evil anymore.
Kaigaku wounds Zenitsu with Sixth Form: Rumble and Flash.
Kaigaku responds he does know, as he uses Third Form: Thunder Swarm to weave around Zenitsu and injure him further. He explains his belief that those who know his worth are good and those who don't are evil. Using Fifth Form: Heat Lightning, Kaigaku slashes and burns Zenitsu simultaneously, asking if he enjoys his blade infused with his Blood Demon Art, before attacking him again with Sixth Form: Rumble and Flash, wounding Zenitsu all throughout his body; Kaigaku gloats that with his immense power both burning and slashing him, he has become a demon to surpass Thunder Breathing.
As Zenitsu falls, with the demon remarking he is truly different to him, he recalls when Jigoro once pointed to Kaigaku as an example. Thunder Breathing as a style revolves around using the first form as a foundation; as such, it didn't matter if someone that used the other forms when they couldn't do the first. Knowing this, he recalls that even when Kaigaku was a lesser user of the style, he retained an arrogant personality, dismissing anyone who he perceived to be beneath him, despite himself knowing that Kaigaku could never be a Hashira as a result.
He understands why Kaigaku hates him, but despite also returning the sentiment, he still respected Kaigaku for his hard work. To him and Jigoro, Kaigaku was a special person, yet none of it satisfied him. He compares Kaigaku's heart to a box with a hole that held his happiness; despite whatever went in, it could never fill up.
Zenitsu beheads Kaigaku using Seventh Form: Honoikazuchi no Kami.
Apologizing to Jigoro for the two of them taking different paths, he uprights his body and plants his feet along the wall to stop his descent. As Kaigaku watches with surprise, Zenitsu apologizes to him and attacks with Thunder Breathing, Seventh Form: Honoikazuchi no Kami, instantly decapitating Upper Rank Six. As he plummets, Kaigaku tries to comprehend what had just happened, unable to see the attack. He curses Jigoro for favoring Zenitsu by teaching him an exclusive form, but Zenitsu denies their trainer was such a person. This form was of his creation, one he had hoped to use to fight alongside him.
Yushiro taunts Kaigaku for his lonely death, before saving Zenitsu.
After Zenitsu beheads Kaigaku with Thunder Breathing, Seventh Form: Honoikazuchi no Kami, both fall in the Infinity Castle to their deaths. Zenitsu plummets while unconscious as the disintegrating Kaigaku grows furious at his defeat by Zenitsu's hand, angered that the one he believed to be weaker than himself had managed to create a seventh form. He comforts himself with the idea that he too will die with him when he hits the bottom.
Suddenly Yushiro enters Kaigaku's vision, telling him that those who never give anything will one day never gain from others, and that only wanting is the same as having nothing when they cannot create for others, before coldly telling the fallen Upper Rank that it is pitiful to die alone. Yushiro leaps across the walls and catches the unconscious Zenitsu, while the fallen Upper Rank disintegrates to ash, marking a pathetic end to the prideful and traitorous Demon Slayer.
Zenitsu see himself in the afterlife, a land full of red spider lilies; he sees his master Jigoro across the Sanzu River, separating the two. He apologizes to him for never getting along with Kaigaku despite his attempts to reach out, believing if it wasn't for him, Kaigaku wouldn't have been goaded into becoming a demon. He apologizes for never repaying his debts, and adds that he truly wanted to become a Hashira whilst he was alive. However, Jigoro remains silent, and Zenitsu, believing he still hates him, asks for his trainer to say something to him.
Suddenly, the lilies begin to wrap around his feet, pulling him into the ground. Watches as he sinks lower, Jigoro tearfully informs his former student, "Zenitsu... I'm proud of you", causing him to tear up as well. In reality, Zenitsu awakens to Yushiro patching his wounds, surrounded and guarded by more Demon Slayer. Murata, who recognizes him, asks on his condition and whether he can be saved. Annoyed by his yelling and begging, Yushiro only tells him to keep on guard.
Yushiro telling Murata that his screams draws the attention of several demons.
Murata does not taken kindly to his orders and demands to know his rank but the demon ignores him while administering a styptic to stop Zenitsu's bleeding, though he notes that the cuts on his face might worsen. Murata chastises him for his pessimism and comforts Zenitsu, as the others tell him he will be saved as well. Yushiro remarks was lucky that Kaigaku had not mastered his techniques, saying he could have killed him had he progressed in a years. Murata once again demands he keep positive, but his screaming draws the attention of several demons.
Yushiro, the only demon to not be created by Muzan Kibutsuji, recalls when Tamayo had told him to act naturally as he assisted the Demon Slayers, though his dissatisfaction was plainly written on his face. After changing his eye color and donning a uniform, the others did not suspect Yushiro to be a demon, though they sensed that something was not right. Murata struggles to sever a demon's neck, causing Yushiro to demand he hasten his effort. He uses a Kasugai crow with his talisman to sense his surroundings, but grows concerned when something is nearby.
Tanjiro becomes enraged to see Akaza again.
As Tanjiro and Giyu continue through the castle, he notices they have not encountered any Upper Ranks, before wondering on the whereabouts of Muzan and the other Hashira. As he tries to tell himself they will succeed, the hallway they are in begins to shake violently as something approaches them. He wonders if it is a battle but senses it is approaching them, recognizing its scent. Giyu warns him to stay back as the ceiling cracks open; Akaza lands down to face the two and taunts Tanjiro, surprised that someone as weak as him is still alive, before lunging at Tanjiro while yelling his name. Angered to see the familiar face, Tanjiro dodges and yells out his name in return, ready to fight Upper Rank Three.
Elsewhere, hovering above a bottomless shaft, Tamayo finds herself trapped in a fleshy cocoon. Noticing it is able to decompose her human-conversion drug, she realizes it will absorb her as well in enough time and pleads for someone to save her.
Tengen and Shinjuro guard the Ubuyashikis.
While in the process of mapping out the Infinity Castle, Kanata begins to envision the recently deceased members of her family. Her emotions begin to overwhelm her and her eyes well up with tears, but Kiriya tells her to stop crying and continue with her task, reassuring her that they will win. Kanata acknowledges his orders and recomposes herself to continue. Sitting outside the room of the Ubuyashikis are the former Hashiras Tengen Uzui and Shinjuro Rengoku. Tengen marvels at Kiriya's mental fortitude, continuing his mission despite the lingering anguish of his father's death.
Shinjuro agrees and is amazed that children so young have taken on an enormous responsibility. He promises to risk his life to protect them, as Kyojuro did, in order to no longer bring shame to his family name. Elsewhere in the estate, Sakonji tends to an unconscious Nezuko; despite using Tamayo's human-conversion drug on her as told, she seems to be in pain, sweating profusely and groaning. He notes that if she truly can be human again, Muzan's scheme will fall apart, losing the only demon in a thousand years to ever be resistant to sunlight.
However, Sakonji himself is also trembling and sweating in sheer nervousness. Whenever he thinks about the battle's eventual endgame, he grows anxious to realize the ancient war of humans and demons might soon end, something he will witness. He reminisces on Tanjiro and realizes he had always played a pivotal part. Since bringing his sister to him, Sakonji had felt as if cogs had begun to turn. The ancient war is but a giant machine, and with the introduction of him and Nezuko, it is as if two added cogs have shifted the stagnant situation to begin moving. He hopes that the siblings will not lose.
Tanjiro evades Akaza's punch using Hinokami Kagura: Fire Wheel.
As Akaza throws a punch at Tanjiro, the Demon Slayer performs Hinokami Kagura: Fire Wheel to flip over him and catch his arm with his blade. He summons the strength to slice it off, but Akaza regenerates it back and quickly retaliates by swinging his fist back at his head. Using Hinokami Kagura: Fake Rainbow, he evades the blow and appears behind the demon, while also managing to slash through his head. Giyu is impressed to see Tanjiro has progressed in his technique so much, as Akaza stares curiously at his attacker; he remarks that he can confidently say his ability is now that of a Hashira's to be able to handle an Upper Rank.
Giyu becomes amazed by Tanjiro's rapid progression.
On the first day they met, all Tanjiro could do was despair in his weakness and beg for Nezuko's life to be spared; now able to fight, Tanjiro won't ever again lose his life or his dignity. Akaza suddenly remembers Kyojuro's words, "This boy is not weak. Do not insult him", and realizes now he was telling the truth. He remarks that Tanjiro is certainly no longer weak, and to show he has earned his respect, Upper Rank Three performs Technique Development, Destructive Death: Compass Needle, to celebrate his opponent's new strength in a battle.
Giyu blocks Akaza's Disorder with Eleventh Form: Dead Calm.
Using Water Breathing, Third Form: Flowing Dance, Giyu maneuvers around Akaza and evades his numerous attacks; Akaza remarks that it had been fifty years since he fought a Water Hashira, using Destructive Death: Disorder to force him to retaliate. Giyu uses Water Breathing, Eleventh Form: Dead Calm to dispel the shockwaves; Akaza becomes impressed, having never seen the technique as the last Water Hashira he had killed did not use it. Tanjiro attacks him from behind, using Hinokami Kagura: Raging Sun to go for his neck.
Akaza evades the slashes and appears behind him, attempt to chop off his head. He fails to perform Hinokami Kagura: Fake Rainbow in time but is saved when Giyu slashes off the Upper Rank's arm with Water Breathing, Second Form: Water Wheel, though he regenerates the limb instantly. The two clash head on; attacking again from behind him, Tanjiro tries using Hinokami Kagura: Flame Dance to cut down the demon but Akaza uses Destructive Death: Leg Type, Crown Splitter to fend him off. He blocks the attack with his sword but his nose still bleeds from the sheer force of Akaza's kick.
Akaza launches Giyu with Leg Type: Explosive Flurry.
As Akaza evades Giyu's slashes, he marvels at his superb technique and demands to know his name, wishing to remember. Giyu refuses to divulge his name to the demon and tells him he hates talking; the amused Akaza responds that he enjoys talking in battle and decides he will continually ask for it instead. Using Destructive Death: Leg Type, Explosive Flurry, Akaza kicks at Giyu in rapid succession and launches him away with his shockwaves; despite blocking the attack with his sword's handle, Giyu is sent flying through numerous walls.
Burning Bones, Summer Sun clashes with Eight-Layered Demon Core.
Tanjiro attempts to call out to Giyu but Akaza appears before him, satisfied to know the Hashira's name. The Demon Slayer and Upper Three clash, with Tanjiro performing Hinokami Kagura: Burning Bones, Summer Sun and Akaza retaliating with Destructive Death: Eight-Layered Demon Core. The attack's vibrations ring loudly in his sword but Tanjiro is able to escape the attack unharmed. Akaza compliments him for his growth and his training to reach his level. He commends Kyojuro for Tanjiro's success, recalling their first encounter when he was lying on the ground too weak to be notices, but as of right now, he is happy and excited to battle him.
He tells Tanjiro he is glad that Kyojuro is dead, believing he had already reached his peak because he valued being human. Upon hearing the demon's statement, Tanjiro becomes furious and demands he take back his words. Confused, Akaza responds he is praising the two of them, but Tanjiro retorts he is only insulting those he calls weak. The demon believes Tanjiro misunderstands him and states that he only despises the weak because it disgusts him; to him, it is the law of nature to weed out the weak.
Tanjiro tells Akaza that him standing now is proof he is wrong; everyone begins life as a baby, born weak and needing help from someone, including him. He states that the true law of nature is that the strong protect the weak, and the weak become stronger to help those less than them; telling Akaza his way of thinking is unforgivable, he declares his days of doing what he pleases are over, causing the demon to clench his fist in anger.
Facing off against Tanjiro, Akaza cannot brush aside the repulsive feeling he is giving him. He is unsure why he feels angry fighting him since he knows Tanjiro is no longer weak, yet he cannot shake the feeling of his eyes, voice and words cutting into him. At that moment, someone seemingly grabs Akaza's shoulder and confirms Tanjiro's words; everyone starts off weak, then they get help from everyone around them and learn, but that he should only compare his own progress against himself, not that of others.
The man tells him what is important is becoming stronger than he was yesterday, and by developing himself, soon he can be the one to help people. Angered, Akaza tries to punch behind him to hit the man, but strikes nothing. As a bewildered Tanjiro sees Akaza punch the air suddenly, Upper Rank Three angrily mutters, "Tanjiro, you really are unpleasant".
Akaza attacks Tanjiro with Flying Planet Thousand Wheels.
Akaza suddenly lunges at Tanjiro and uses Destructive Death: Crushing Type, Ten-Thousand Leaves Flashing Willow, rupturing the ground around him, with Tanjiro just barely dodging the attack. As he becomes stunned to see Akaza's new speed and precision, the demon quickly engages the Demon Slayer again from below and uses his Destructive Death: Leg Type, Flying Planet Thousand Wheels, with Tanjiro enduring the blow and vomiting blood as a result. Akaza swings at him but Tanjiro barely ducks down to avoid it, all while he tries to rationalize how the Upper Rank's attacks are so potent.
With his techniques possessing unparalleled precision, as if his fists are magnetized to his vital areas, he tries to understand what he is gauging his attacks on, thinking back to his battle with Kyojuro to find the answer. Using Hinokami Kagura: Solar Heat Haze, Tanjiro slashes at Akaza's neck; his blade seemingly distorts as it slashes him, despite Akaza believed he dodged it by moving away from it. He is amused to see the unusual technique and asks how he performed it, continuing to attack Tanjiro as the Demon Slayer struggles to fend off the relentless onslaught.
At the Rengoku estate, Senjuro prays to his older brother; a large battle has begun and their father is away to protect the Oyakata, asking that Kyojuro protect him and Tanjiro. He thinks back to the letter he sent to Tanjiro; though it was a trivial matter, he had written to him about a conversation the Sengoku era's Flame Hashira had with a user of Sun Breathing. The swordsman had explained his experience of fighting Muzan, but upon hearing his story, the Hashira lost his confidence. Despite this, Senjuro prays that Tanjiro won't lose, wondering if Kyojuro agrees.
Giyu slashes Akaza's hands to save Tanjiro.
In the midst of the battle, it is revealed that Senjuro's Kasugai Crow has indeed entered the Infinity Castle, but has not given Tanjiro his letter and is watching the battle behind cover, forcing him to defeat Akaza in order to read it. Tanjiro uses Hinokami Kagura: Dance and swings down at the demon, but Akaza catches the blade mid-slash and attempts to break it. In a desperate move, he headbutts Upper Three, but Akaza only compliments him for his efforts.
He kicks Akaza in the chin but he continues to maintain his hold. As the blade begins to creak, Akaza's hands are suddenly slashed off, saving Tanjiro. He looks up and sees Giyu has returned, as the Water Hashira becomes angry at the severe pain in his back from being launched by Akaza.
As Giyu and Akaza face each other, Giyu rationalizes why he fights as an individual. Though he is usually hesitant to draw his sword and isn't one to fight for amusement, standing now and facing an opponent who can overwhelm him, he realizes his senses have sharpened in a short amount of time; senses that once lie dormant in him and just now are brought out onto the battlefield he stands on. He finally understands the intense struggle to increase one's own skills; as Tanjiro looks on, the Water Hashira manifests a splash-like mark on his cheek.
A Marked Giyu attacks Akaza with Fourth Form: Striking Tide.
Giyu makes a powerful swing at Akaza, just barely missing his mark. The demon responds with a punch straight to his head but Giyu ducks down and slashes his neck, forcing Akaza to back away. Tanjiro notes that with his Mark manifested, Giyu's speed has increased greatly; the Hashira uses Water Breathing, Fourth Form: Striking Tide and attacks Upper Three head-on, splitting the demon's arm but sustaining a gash to his head. Watching from a distance, Tanjiro notes that despite both fighters moving at tremendous speeds, Akaza was able to quickly adapt to Giyu's enhanced abilities.
Realizing that a lengthy battle will decided by a demon's endless strength and that their true goal is defeating Muzan, he scrambles to find a way to beat Akaza. He tries to understand how the demon attacks so precisely and is able to react to attacks he cannot immediately see. Recalling when Akaza had complimented Kyojuro on his highly developed fighting spirit, he attempts to define what it is and recalls a conversation he had with Inosuke.
In the Butterfly Mansion, Inosuke informs Tanjiro he feels a tingle where an opponent is aiming at him, which Tanjiro surmises is the reason he was able to survive when Gyutaro had stabbed him from behind. He claims that even when someone is behind him, he can determine where they are looking; as a demonstration, he asks Tanjiro to look at his back, upon which he correctly answers that he was looking at his right shoulder. Inosuke adds that when someone looks at him with the intent to kill, he can tell immediately.
Remembering this moment, Tanjiro realizes Inosuke was able to do so because of his honed sense of touch. At the same time, Inosuke had angrily remarked that if someone isn't looking at him with hostility, he cannot sense them; he points out the old woman at the Wisteria House, as she once sat behind Inosuke without him able to detect her. He believes that if he was able to get close to an opponent without emitting hostility, they wouldn't be able to detect him. However, Tanjiro added that while an elderly lady had no reason to harm him, it would be impossible to kill a demon without showing hostility.
Akaza catches Tanjiro's sword without looking.
Despite remembering the moment as a silly conversation, he realizes it was still able to help him learn. What Akaza senses is something he calls "fighting spirit" but he remains unsure of what it is exactly and whether he can use it to disrupt Akaza's Compass Needle. As the two continue to clash, Akaza parries Giyu's blade, throwing him off-balance and attempting to throw a punch. Tanjiro goes for his exposed neck and uses Hinokami Kagura: Dance, but the Upper Rank grabs his sword from behind him and throws a punch with his other hand, mocking Tanjiro for leaving himself open.
He is barely able to dodge the blow and sustains a cut across his stomach. Giyu engages him again as Tanjiro backs away, attempting to find what Akaza is sensing until he has an epiphany.
Tanjiro remembers how his father seemed like a plant; he was never temperamental and was always calm, maintaining his demeanor until his death. Whenever he remembers him, he immediately thinks of his gentle smile and calming voice. Tanjiro recalls a time he had asked him about what he thinks when he performs the Hinokami Kagura. Even as a child, Tanjiro knew that the practice was physically demanding, as it involved performing all twelve forms from sunset to sunrise continuously. Worried about his frail body, Tanjiro asks if he can be the one to do it next year.
Tanjuro thanks his son for his concern but brushes aside his worry, stating that in the last few years he performed it, he never believed it to be difficult. He remembers learning it from his own father, but comments that even though he was younger and healthier back then, doing it exhausted him greatly. He surmised it was because the forms had unnecessary movements; instead, what matters was maintaining proper breathing and control, making the most efficient moves to exert the most strength. Tanjuro states that by doing this, your mind gradually becomes clear.
In the beginning, he must learn to pick up the movements and sensibilities to open all his senses and become conscious of his own body, down to his very blood vessels. It is this process that is extremely strenous and presents the most self-doubt in himself, maybe even believing that he will not succeed despite his progress. After gaining the knowledge, he will know to remove what is unnecessary and close himself off. Eventually, he can control the vessels and muscles in his body as easily as blinking, and once he clears his head, he will see the Transparent World, though only through pushing himself to his strength limits. When Tanjiro asks if he can attain it, Tanjuro reassures him that he can with diligent work, before presenting him with new warajis.
Tanjuro confronts a bear threatening his family.
Ten days before Tanjuro's death, a bear had come to the mountain they lived in and killed people. As the Kamado family sleeps through a blizzard, Tanjuro suddenly awakens and gets up from, after which he asks his eldest son to accompany him. As Tanjuro and a still sleepy Tanjiro wandered outside, the two encounter the bear, standing almost nine shaku tall and believed to have killed six people. Hiding behind a tree,  Tanjiro watches his father confront the bear despite his illness and armed with only an axe; they had strung ropes with bells attached as a warning but his father knew it was nearby without hearing them.
Tanjuro apologizes for its hunger but warns the creature not to come any closer; if anything tries to harm his family, he will show it no mercy and take its life. As the bear roars and lumbers forward to kill him, Tanjuro swings his axe and leaps up, decapitating the bear before it could move a step. As its giant head drops to the ground, Tanjiro tries to piece together what had happened; in that moment, Tanjuro would have had to swing twice to get completely through its neck, and with his sense of smell, he realizes he never wavered in the slightest.
Tanjiro enters the Transparent World.
Before and after killing it, he showed no fear, no ill will, and maintained his usual calm self. As he turns to ask if his son had observed him, Tanjiro answers that he did and hugs him; Tanjuro tells him to remember the events of today. Looking back at that night, he realizes his father had given him a lesson to see the Transparent World, much like his descendants before him had to learn. It is then he understands his father's advice and how he was able to dodge Akaza's potentially lethal strike.
For just an instant, when the demon grabbed his blade and was poised to swing, Tanjiro had entered the Transparent World, his vision was heightened and he could see Akaza's muscles through his body. Managing to close off his other senses to dodge something unavoidable, his body became even faster. Realizing he should have never doubted Inosuke for his advice, he resolves to take down Akaza whilst he battles Giyu.
Tanjiro sees Akaza with the Transparent World.
Having seen the Transparent World momentarily, Tanjiro realizes his own perception and speed have increased dramatically; he was able to predict Akaza's attacks and evade them. His breathing and the flow of his blood became visible to him, and he even saw his own muscles contract; he determines that by closing off his Fighting Spirit, he may be able to behead him.
As the now desperate Giyu uses Water Breathing, Tenth Form: Constant Flux against Akaza, the demon only sustains a shallow cut to his neck, while the Hashira is wounded in his shoulder. He notes that making any powerful attack on Akaza will only responded to with equal force, leaving him nowhere to go when his attempts to attack him are now predictable. He marvels at the sheer power of Upper Rank Three, a killing machine whose only purpose is to fight.
Akaza snaps Giyu's blade.
As Akaza taunts Giyu for using all of his forms, he prepares to end the battle and expresses surprise he has lasted thus far. Tanjiro, watching as Akaza gets close to Giyu, observes the demon and attempts to concentrate. Giyu slashes down on the demon's neck, but Akaza intercepts the slash, using his fist to break off the Hashira's Nichirin katana. Shocked at his weapon breaking, Giyu stands helplessly as Akaza bids him goodbye and aims a punch at his chest. Blood sprays from his hand is but it is Akaza's own, his hand has been suddenly sliced off as Tanjiro uses Hinokami Kagura to save Giyu, who notes that the sound of his breathing has changed.
Akaza uses Final Form: Blue Silver Chaotic Afterglow.
Observing the Demon Slayer as he stands to face him, Akaza grows alarmed as he senses the changed Tanjiro is now exceedingly dangerous. Using Technique Development, Final Form: Blue Silver Chaotic Afterglow, Upper Three summons his Compass Needle and launches numerous explosives shockwaves in an omni-direction attack. Giyu panics at his increased power and speed; he wonders if he can negate it with Dead Calm, but now seeing into the Transparent World, Tanjiro instead wonders if time has slowed or Giyu and Akaza have.
Though he uses his eleventh form, Giyu sustains severe wounds across his body as the shockwaves pass through his defensive stance. Akaza is impressed to see the Water Hashira survive the attack and offers to transform him into a demon, telling not to die like Kyojuro and Tanjiro. Instead, Giyu is stunned to see Tanjiro standing behind the Upper Rank, who is now unable to sense him. As Tanjiro looks at Akaza's neck, he angrily calls out the demon's name, causing Giyu to chide him for giving away his position. Akaza swings but Tanjiro evades the punch and goes for an attack.
Tanjiro beheads Akaza with Setting Sun Transformation.
Initially surprised Tanjiro has survived his attack, he pays no attention and believes his Compass Needle will sense him. However, he is unable to sense anything as his Fighting Spirit is now absent. Taken aback at first, Akaza composes himself and waits for the attack to be detected, but Tanjiro has already used Hinokami Kagura: Setting Sun Transformation and beheaded the Upper Rank, much to his and Giyu's shock.
Akaza compares fighting Tanjiro to fighting a plant.
After being beheaded by Tanjiro, Akaza reflects on the moment; in the last few hundred years, he had never seen someone without Fighting Spirit; even a baby crying shows it is fighting to live. Tanjiro's Fighting Spirit had disappeared completely, like he was fighting a plant, an anomaly that should not exist and caused his Compass to not respond. Still, he pushes past the challenge of not sensing Tanjiro, knowing that in battle, it is vital to immediately understand and handle the unexpected.
Yet, he understood that Tanjiro had grasped something and surpassed his speed, attacking head-on to defeat hundreds of years of martial arts experience. His eyes bored no malice or Fighting Spirit and Akaza realizes he had perceived the "Domain of Supremacy", a Selfless State whose vague existence was something he knew but could never have attained.
Akaza puts his detached head back onto his body and attempts to heal, vowing to keep fighting and get stronger. Tanjiro realizes what he is trying to do and Giyu responds by hurling his broken sword at the demon's head, knocking it away from his body. Despite his head now separated, Akaza still attempts to will himself and continue getting stronger, but the head begins to disintegrate to ash, eventually leaving Giyu's sword where it lands. Tanjiro grows relieved as he sees he has won, but his body begin to tremble from reaching his limit.
Akaza uses Compass Needle despite his decapitation.
However, the two notice Akaza's body has not faded yet. As they look on in anxious anticipation, his body suddenly performs Technique Development: Compass Needle and takes a fighting stance, the neck staunching its wound to stop the bleeding.  The headless body attacks Tanjiro and attempt to chop off his neck, only barely missing when he dodges the blow. As it attempts to grow a new head, it kicks Tanjiro in the side and sends him crashing into a wall. In pain and shock, Tanjiro questions how he could've failed to kill Akaza despite beheading him.
Despite his wounds, Giyu vows to protect Tanjiro from Akaza.
He initially believes he has a special condition, as with Gyutaro and Daki, but remembering how he saw the severed head burn to ash; instead, Akaza is attempting to evolve even further, and like Muzan, he is trying to extend his weakness beyond his head. As he attempts to getting up, Tanjiro finally loses consciousness after having reached his body's limit. Watching from behind them and see him vulnerable, Giyu picks up his broken sword and uses Water Breathing, Fourth Form: Striking Tide, but the headless body heals the slashes almost instantly.
Without his Mark, Giyu is quickly overwhelmed by Akaza's attacks and is brought down. The demon turns to Tanjiro with the intent to kill but the Hashira yells at the demon that he is still alive, and if he wants to get to Tanjiro, he must defeat him first. A voice rings in Akaza, telling him that indomitable wills won't ever break in any hardship, and that while "they" are not samurai who carry a sword, they carry swords in their heart and use their fists. Akaza disregards the voice as a nuisance and attempts to confront Giyu, but he is held back by a young woman, who tearfully tells him, "Hakuji, that's enough."
As Giyu readies to fight Akaza once more, he realizes the direness of his situation; his left ear hearing is gone, his right hand is numb, and he can't tell how much strength he has left. As with how sprinting can only be done for so long till the point of exhaustion, reaching past one's physical limits results in precision being lost and heavy strain on the muscles, hands, and feet. Demons on the other hand, don't feel pain, nor do they tired; it is a miracle anyone can battle an Upper Rank with just a Breathing Style. Despite the odds, Giyu resolves to save Tanjiro and prevent the death of another person who saved him.
Akaza is stopped by the hallucination of a woman.
The woman urges Akaza to stop and holds onto his hand, who demands she let go and asks who she is. She begs him to leave but the demon wishes to kill Giyu and Tanjiro. When asked why he wants to kill them, he answers that he must become stronger, and when the woman asks why he must, Akaza responds, "Because... if I'm not strong, I can't bring it back. Medicine for my father." As his life flashes before his eyes, he remembers he wanted to get stronger so that he could steal money, fight back against his victims when they retaliate, and endure beatings at the magistrate's office when he is caught.
A young Hakuji is beaten for stealing.
Tied up and bloody from his lashings, Akaza, then known as Hakuji, is presented before the magistrate, who warns him after getting tattooed for his crimes, the next punishment is losing a hand. Hakuji laughs and dismisses the threat, claiming that without hands, he can still use his feet, vowing to never get caught again. The magistrate reminds him even at the age of eleven, he is already a repeat offender and endures beatings severe enough to make a grown man faint, calling him a 'demon child'. After leaving the office, Hakuji laughs off being insulted as a demon child and claims he was born with teeth. Suddenly, a man informs him that his father had hung himself upon learning he was caught.
At the cemetery, holding a letter from him in his hand, he finds his father's headstone. The letter he wrote to him reads: "Dear Hakuji. Live a righteous life. You can still change. I didn't want to live if it meant stealing from people. I am sorry for troubling you". Clutching his headstone, Hakuji mourns his father, angrily asking if the poor were even allowed to live and cursing the world for his death.
A grieving Hakuji releases his rage at a group of strangers.
Hurt and enraged, Hakuji walked into a town and started a brawl, brutally beating several men as they tried to fight back against him, all while denouncing them for being alive as his father dies. He yells out that he wasn't a bother who needed to apologize for anything, and for his sake, he could take any punishment they give him no matter the severity. His father's condition had begun to worsen but he was sure he could save him, yet he chose to hang himself and die, a choice he was prepared to make himself and do for him. As his victims lay unconscious and Hakuji takes time to breathe, a martial artist offers him a slow clap and commends his skill. He notes he had been summoned with the news that a child was about to be killed, only to instead see that said child has knocked seven grown men unconscious.
The man tells Hakuji he has promise and is impressed by his skill to fight bare-handed; Akaza wonders who he is as he realizes he is seeing his memories. When the man asks if he could come to his dojo since he has no students, Hakuji angrily dismisses his offer and threatens to kill him. He notes that he has tattoos branding him as a criminal from Edo, meaning he was banished and came here, but Hakuji pays no heed and claims it has nothing to do with him. The man tells him it is time he is reborn and takes a fighting stance; Hakuji lunges at him with all his rage but the man throws numerous rapid punches at the boy, knocking him unconscious.
When he regains consciousness, the man is amazed at his toughness despite the severe beating he received, only waking up after an hour. He introduces himself as Keizo, a martial teacher at a dojo that teaches the Soryu Style, though he earns a living through odd jobs due to having no students. As Hakuji follows behind him, Keizo explains his new job is to nurse his sick daughter whilst he is away; his wife grew tired of having to care for her and drowned herself, and burdened by her death, he became weak-willed. Hakuji questions if Keizo would want a criminal to care for his daughter, but Keizo notes that since he had defeated him, it is okay with him now.
Akaza meets Koyuki.
It is then that Akaza realizes the reason he dislikes Tanjiro is because he reminds him of Keizo, a figment of his worthless life's story. Keizo introduces him to his daughter Koyuki, and her condition reminds Hakuji of his father's own illness. He asks if she is feeling better than before and introduces her to the boy behind him, who refuses to give his name. Keizo asks that she get it before he comes back and leaves to go to work. Alone with Hakuji, Koyuki asks if he is okay, seeing his injuries; Akaza remarks that his worthless life was nothing but lies.
Koyuki apologizes for burdening Hakuji, which he does not mind.
Hakuji questions why the ill are always apologizing for what they can't control. They want independence, but cannot move, and despite suffering, they blame themselves. While helping Koyuki, she apologizes because he is unable to train or have fun with her; her condition had worsened, leading to him spending all night changing her bedding and towels, giving her water, and helping her relieve herself. However, having helped his father with his illness and with superior endurance to most, Hakuji was not bothered.
He tells Koyuki he spends his time training anyway and does not mind staying in. She insists that he leave her sometimes, having heard there would be fireworks tonight and insisting he go. He responds he can simply carry her and they can go see them together. She becomes confused, and he explains that even if she can't go today, they will be on each year and she can go see them then. Upon hearing this, Koyuki begins to cry; dismayed, Hakuji notes it is the one thing he didn't like about nursing her, believing that being sick and bedridden was making her sad, something he didn't enjoy.
While taking a drink with Keizo, the master notes that the kanji for "Haku" in Hakuji is the same as "Koma" in Komainu, believing that both of them must protect something like a Komainu protecting its shrine, a fact that makes him laugh. Hakuji recounts how Keizo came to own the dojo; though he wasn't a samurai, he owned the land because he had saved the owner from bandits. Impressed with his fighting and without an heir, the man gave Keizo his land and dojo. However, others who wanted the land were displeased Keizo took ownership; a nearby kenjutsu dojo began to harass Keizo's dojo, leading him to have difficulty finding students. Despite this, lessons with him and helping Koyuki healed Keizo's heart.
Keizo asks Hakuji if he would be his successor to the dojo.
Years later, Hakuji is now eighteen and Koyuki is sixteen. No longer sick, she was bright, cheery, and eager to help in the dojo, happy to live normally. One day, Keizo calls Hakuji over to the main room, where he asks if Hakuji would like to be his successor to the dojo, adding that Koyuki likes him, rendering both teens speechless. Having been branded a criminal, he never imagined himself with a future, let alone one where someone likes him. He realizes he is now able to live the righteous life his father had asked, giving him the hope that he could start anew. Hakuji bowed in gratitude to Keizo, recalling at that moment, he would give his life to Koyuki and Keizo, and as such, he could have never imagined them poisoned to death.
Hakuji went to his father's grave to tell him he would be getting married, but while returning, he saw people at the front of the dojo, giving him a terrible premonition. He is told that the well they drank from was poisoned, because the assailant couldn't beat him or Keizo in a battle. Inside the dojo, Hakuji saw the bodies of Koyuki and Keizo, their clothes bloody and faces covered. He lamented that once more, a crisis has happened and he wasn't there to save the people he loved, even when he promised. Previously, while watching a display of fireworks, Koyuki asked him if he had remembered when they both talked about seeing them, to which he vaguely recalls.
She tells him that even such a minor conversation made her happy, because even when she couldn't see them then, he had told her she could see them next year. Koyuki couldn't imagine living another year; her mother felt the same way, which she believes is the reason she killed herself. She knew that even her father had given up on her because she was so weak. Despite it, she remarks when he told her about the coming years, it was as if Hakuji could see her future and stated it as a matter of fact. She asks if he would be her husband, holding his hand. Hakuji holds hers and says yes, promising to become stronger than anyone else and protect her for life; Hakuji bitterly remarks that in the end, he never lived up to his promise.
Hakuji massacres the rival dojo in a fit of rage and grief.
Records at the magistrate's office recount details of a gruesome massacre; enraged at losing the people he loved once again, Hakuji attacked the kenjutsu dojo and killed 67 of its members with his bare hands. The dojo was strewn with crushed organs and bodies mangled beyond recognition, a hellish scene with viscera, brains, and limbs scattered along the walls and ceiling. The maid who witnessed the massacre lost her mind, and thirty years later, the records were destroyed because it was so unbelievable, it was thought to be fabricated.
Muzan impales Hakuji's head.
Bloodied and dazed, Hakuji walked mindlessly until he came to a footbridge. The man on it remarks about hearing of the dojo's massacre and was curious as he didn't recall sending a demon to the town, disappointed to know it was a human who committed the murders. Hakuji threatens to kill the stranger when he suddenly lunges and impales his head with his hand. Planning to create a group of twelve powerful demons, he asks Hakuji if he could withstand the blood he will received. Broken by his loss, he replies that he did not care anymore.
As a demon, now going by the name Akaza, Hakuji has lost his memories but was still drawn to seeking greater strength, even when he had nothing he wanted to protect. He didn't want to live in a world without his family, and for over the next century, he would go on to commit countless acts of senseless violence, denouncing his entire life as "a horribly sad, laughable, and ridiculous story."
As Akaza laments being unable to go to heaven like his father, Keizo and Koyuki, he becomes furious that Tanjiro and Giyu have reminded him of his painful past. He curses humans as weak, soft, and brittle; they die easily, they're brittle, and disappear into nothing. Tanjiro awakens from his ordeal, shocked at how he fainted. Akaza begins to regenerate his head and performs Destructive Death: Annihilation Type. As Tanjiro yells at him to stop, the demon is shocked that he has managed to survive his kick. Declaring that he will behead the demon again, Tanjiro's sword ignites with the fires of the Hinokami Kagura.
However, his sword slips out of his grasp, forcing Tanjiro to punch Akaza's face instead, reminding him of when he first met Keizo. Akaza recalls why he hates weak people; they don't fight face to face, they poison wells, and they're impatient, and he killed these weak people with his fists. He then realizes that throughout his demon life, he turned Keizo's fighting style into a weapon and disrespected his father's last words, finally realizing who he must truly kill. As Tanjiro panics about his lost sword and sees Akaza about to use the same technique that killed Kyojuro, he notices Giyu in the attack's range. Despite Giyu telling him to not worry about him, Tanjiro grabs him and throws both themselves out of the technique's path.
Akaza destroys his own body with Annihilation Type.
He then sees Akaza with a slight smile on his face, engulfed by numerous shockwaves. The attack leaves the surrounding area devastated and Akaza's body a broken, bloody mess. Wondering why he would attack himself, Tanjiro smells a scent of gratitude from the corpse, before asking why he had smiled before hitting himself. The body begins to regenerate, but Akaza stops the process, accepting that the fight is over and he had lost. He commends Tanjiro for his magnificent technique, anticipating and slashing before he could react. The broken body begins to walk away, while Akaza's spirit decides he would go to Hell with his dignity. When he stops, to Tanjiro's confusion, his spirit meets with his father's.
Asking if he was alright, his father reassures, calling him Hakuji and thanking him. As he apologizes for being unable to fix himself, his head is held by Keizo, who tells him that they would never abandon him no matter what, despite Akaza not being able to go to heaven with them. As he calls out for his master, Muzan appears, grabbing his head and reminding him to get stronger, to continue fighting. With that, his body regenerates even quicker, and Akaza voices his will to keep his promise and get stronger, declaring once again he will kill everyone. Suddenly, Koyuki touches his face, thanking Hakuji and saying that he has done enough. Though Muzan appears again, calling him Akaza once more, he overcomes Muzan's control and grabs Koyuki's spirit on the verge of tears, once again the human Hakuji.
The death of Upper Rank Three.
He tearfully apologizes for being unable to protect her, for not being there when she needed him, and for not being able to keep his promise. Seeing him crying for forgiveness, Koyuki is glad that Hakuji had remembered them all despite his long demon life and returned as a human again. With the words, "Welcome back, my husband", Akaza stops his regeneration. Tanjiro watches as the body of Upper Three finally fades into ash.
As Hakuji calls out to his father, Keizo and Koyuki that he is back home, his spirit becomes engulfed in the fires of hell, joined by Koyuki. Tanjiro watches as Akaza's body finally fades into nothing, declaring the battle over. Realizing he must reach Tamayo to help her, his body can no longer handle the fatigue and he falls on his face unconscious. Surprised that Tanjiro had suddenly fainted, Giyu tries to call out to him but faints from exhaustion as well, resting his body on his sword. A Kasugai Crow calls out the aftermath of the battle, Tanjiro and Giyu have manage to defeat Upper Three but are now unconscious.
Kokushibo no longer feels Akaza's presence and realizes he has been defeated.
Kokushibo no longer feels Akaza's presence and realizes he has been defeated. Upper One reminisces on his previous vow to kill him, remembering the threat at his life earlier. As he voices that Akaza had opened the path to reach further heights and abandoned it, he grabs his sword and furiously slashes the pillars of his room, cursing him as "exceedingly weak".
Kanao introduces herself to Doma.
Doma sesnses Akaza's demise and comments he felt like a different being that usual. As he brushes aside his comment, he asks for Kanao's name. She introduces herself as Kanao Tsuyuri, adding that she is the little sister of Kanae and Shinobu Kocho. Doma is confused, judging that she doesn't appear blood-related to the two but nonetheless comments that young girls are delicious anyway. While on the subject of eating women, Doma mentions his subordinate's conscious decision to not eat them, owing that fact to his demise.
Despite mentioning that women have more nutritional content to demons that men, Akaza refused and was even given special permission by Muzan to do so, since Akaza was only deployed by Muzan on special missions. As he mourns for the death of his "best friend", Kanao tells him to stop the lies. She figures out Doma does not feel the least bit saddened as the colour on his face stayed the same. When Doma responds back it is due to him being a demon, Kanao retorts by mentioning that demons and humans both circulate blood and the colour of their faces can change.
Kanao states that Kanae felt sorry for Doma due to his apathy.
She mentions that Kanae had felt sorry for him as he feels nothing. She talks about how all people are born with the ability to feel happiness, as well as sadness and anger. Doma cannot understand these feelings, but knowing he was intelligent, Kanao instead tears into how he covers up his lack of feelings with a facade of lies, pretending to experience emotion to hide the fact his heart feels nothing. He feels no happiness, no bitterness, no pain, calling him an empty shell and saying his facade is so comical, it's stupid. Finally she mockingly asks, "Why were you even born?".
Doma's facade drops after Kanao insults him.
Doma comments that throughout his life, he has talked with numerous young women but never a "bully" like Kanao and asks how could she say something so cruel. Kanao retaliates by saying her outright hatred of him, her desire to cut off his head. She changes her opinion of him, "You're not very smart, are you", calling him a disgrace, and smiling as she mentions it was better to kill him as his life is utterly pointless and meaningless.
Doma instantly appears behind her, trying to slice her neck. Kanao reacts in time however and crouches down to slash through his abdomen. When he tries to send out his ice lotuses to hit her, she dodges the incoming attack to safety. As Doma heals, he comments that her reaction speed had accelerated, she is adjusting to his own movement. She has not inhaled any of his ice even though it is extremely difficult to attack in her manner without a breathing technique. Doma suddenly realizes that Kanao might actually be more powerful than Shinobu.
Kanao's anger at Doma.
Kanao feels the goosebumps throughout her body aren't stopping. She evens know to put strength into her fingertips to hold her sword, or risk it shaking. She mentions the demons she had faced in the past pale in comparison to Doma, but she is able to face him due to the immense anger she feels, anger so powerful it feels like her body is burning. She feels she must rampage at him or her body would rip itself apart, the dizziness in her head and her anger turning into hatred. She calls that she hates Doma and asks how he could kill her family.
Doma clashed techniques with Kanao.
Kanao vanishes and instantly appears before him, using the Flower Breathing, Fifth Form: Peonies of Futility to rapidly slash him. Doma comments the consecutive attacks are pretty and retaliates with his Blood Demon Art: Barren Hanging Garden. Kanao attacks back with the Flower Breathing, Second Form: Honorable Shadow Plum to destroy the created ice. Doma notices the key to withstanding his attacks are her eyes. She notices his movements and predicts his next actions in anticipation. Complimenting her as smart and the above-average swordsman, the demon decides the best course of action is to gouge them out. Doma slashes at her face but Kanao bends back, sustaining a small cut on the side of her temple. Using the Flower Breathing, Sixth Form: Whirling Peach, she attacks back at the Upper Rank, who compliments her body and flexibility as well-trained and akin to a spring.
Doma deploys his fearsome Freezing Clouds, forcing Kanao to close her eyes or risk freezing them. While on the defensive, she is attacked again by Doma using Blood Demon Art: Lotus Vines, the ice vines converging on her and forcing Kanao to slice the incoming attack to defend against them. When she is finished cutting them apart, Doma quickly attacks again with his Blood Demon Art: Cold White Princesses, two ice figures of women that spray the icy fog in her direction. Kanao again backs away to avoid the fog but must dodge again when Doma unleashes his Blood Demon Art: Wintry Icicles form from above and nearly impale her.
Doma taunts her for getting away from him, mentioning she needs to get up close to kill him.
Doma taunts her for getting away from him, mentioning that in order to kill him, she needs to get up close. He disappears for a moment and reappears, clutching her Nichirin Sword, despite Kanao aware and anticipating his next moves. Doma mocks her for not holding onto the sword and sticks it near him. He tells the demon slayer to "come and get it", and deploys his Blood Demon Art: Scattering Lotuses in her direction. Kanao forces herself to look through the incoming hail of ice to find the area of minimum damage but sustains multiple cuts to her face.
Suddenly, Inosuke smashes through the roof, announcing, "Out of the sky, Lord-Inosuke's comin' in!", and using Beast Breathing, Fifth Fang: Crazy Cutting, he destroys the incoming wave of ice shards, saving Kanao. He thanks the Kasugai Crow for leading him to the right room.
Inosuke comes to a realization and asks an upset Kanao if Shinobu is dead.
Inosuke looks at Doma's eyes and enthusiastically realizes he is Upper Rank Two. He declares he will defeat him and finally become a Hashira. A confused Doma mentions he isn't hiding his identity as Upper Rank Two. Inosuke sees the injured Kanao and warns her that Shinobu will get angry at seeing her condition. But when Kanao doesn't respond and she becomes upset, Inosuke is stunned into silence. Doma overhears him and mentions that Shinobu will live forever inside him, as "That's how everyone I eat gets saved".
Inosuke is shocked, remembering a memory he had where Shinobu pinky-promised him to not remove the bandage of his injured hand. Inosuke angrily declares, "I'll gnaw you to shreds, trash", and charges towards Doma, despite Kanao warning him not to inhale the cold air he creates. Using his Beast Breathing, Fourth Fang: Slice 'n' Dice, Inosuke slashes at Doma, the demon commenting on his "messed up technique" as well as noticing his chipped blades and unorthodox fighting style. When Doma attempts to slash at Inosuke's neck, he flips back and deflects the fan with his feet, earning a compliment from the Upper Rank for his flexibility and intrigued by his mask. Inosuke lands next to Kanao and presents her with her blade, stolen from an unaware Doma, to her shock. Doma comments that the Demon Slayer is fast and grows more ice to attack, only for Inosuke to deflect them back and kick him in the stomach, knocking him away.
Inosuke manages to slash Doma across both eyes.
As he compliments him again, Inosuke charges forward and readies a slash. Doma comments that the attack is far from the sword's range, so when the boar-headed fighter swings, he become shocked that the attack had reached him and slashes across his eyes. Inosuke had used Beast Breathing, Ninth Fang: Extending Bendy Slash, dislocating the joints of his arm to extend his range. He relocates the bones of his arm but is angered that the new attack's inaccuracy made him missed Doma's head, to Kanao's shock.
Doma is amused at his unusual opponent and comments that throughout his own long life, he had never met a fighter like him. Inosuke takes the compliment and says it's because "the other riff-raff losers are nothing compared to me". But while Inosuke is talking, his mask instantly disappears from his face, surprising him and shocking Kanao. Doma had stolen it without either Demon Slayer noticing and comments the boar skin is quite old. As Inosuke angrily demands his mask back, Doma suddenly responds that he knows and has seen Inosuke's face before.
Doma asks if he and Inosuke had met in the past
Doma asks if he and Inosuke had met in the past, causing Inosuke angrily retorts his statement and demand his hands off his mask. However, Doma is sure they have and that he knows him from somewhere. Inosuke responds again that he has not met Doma before. Doma mentions the one he encountered before was Shinobu, leading Inosuke to comment that he felt as if he had met her before, hoping to ask her the next time they met. When Kanao attempts to lead Inosuke away, saying Doma is spouting random nonsense, Doma becomes surprised and offended, stating his only saving grace is his seriousness and long and clear memory, even during his human years. With that, Doma pierces his own skull with his finger, to Kanao and Inosuke's shock and disgust. He fiddles with his brain until he reaches a particular memory and retells it to the two.
Doma remember the first time he meets Kotoha.
Fifteen years ago, there was a young woman with a baby, roughly 17-18 years of age. She was abused by her husband and mother-in-law daily and encountered Doma's Eternal Paradise Faith. She had no siblings or parents and had no place else to go to. When Doma first met her, her face was severely swollen from the beatings, commenting it was "pretty rough" even to him, and that the woman was even partially blinded. But when he touched the woman's face, her face went back to normal. She was so beautiful, it left a lasting impression on even the apathetic Doma. He mentions she had the same face as Inosuke and concludes she must be his mother.
Doma slashes Inosuke's chest twice creating an X-like mark.
Inosuke says that he has no mother and was raised by boars, to Doma's amusement; "You're a human, so a human must have given birth to you". Inosuke charges forward and readies his Beast Breathing: Sixth Fang, to Kanao's concern, only for Doma to state this encounter is a miracle and simultaneously slash at Inosuke's chest twice creating an X-like mark. He quickly summons more ice and knocks both Demon Slayers into the cult room's pond. As Kanao urges Inosuke to calm down, Doma continues his story. He had no intention of eating the woman, as "having someone beautiful next to you feels pretty good, you know?" Though he considered her unintelligent, she was talented at singing. The woman continually sang a pinky-promise lullaby to her baby, Doma mentioning that she sang with different lyrics each time and adding the song soon became a village song.
Inosuke realizes that pinky promise memory was not because of Shinobu. Doma purely planned on letting her live her life but learned that though she wasn't particularly smart, the woman, named Kotoha, was sharp. She soon learned Doma devoured the followers of the cult. Confronting him for his lies and fleeing the temple, Kotoha apologized to Inosuke, cursing herself for continually making mistakes, going the wrong way and repeatedly saying she was sorry.
Doma calls Kotoha's existence pointless infront of Inosuke and Kanao.
She became lost in the forest and unable to find the human village. Cornered at a cliff's edge, she apologizes once more to Inosuke before dropping him off the cliff into the water. Doma kills her shortly after. He believed the baby would died dropped from the cliff and cried at how sad the situation has become. Inosuke suddenly figures out she was killed, his mother was killed. Doma ate her to the very bone and noted if she went to her husband, he would continue beating her, and if she was alone by herself on the road, she would end up dead as well. Doma mocks Kotoha's life for being so unfortunate, "Was there ever a happy moment in her life?", and calls her existence pointless, causing Kanao to furiously tell him to silence himself. As Inosuke grabs his fallen sword from the water, he remembers his mother's love for him.
Doma comments: "It truly is a miracle, meeting you here". Now filled with rage, Inosuke declares, "The demon who killed his mother and my friends is right before my eyes". He stands up and thanks Doma for letting him remember everything, but voices he won't cut off his head now. He takes a stances and readies to fight Upper Rank Two, declaring that "I'll show you what true hell is like".
Doma tells Inosuke that though he was raised by boars and knows his way with words, he is mistaken. The demon claims heaven and hell don't exist, figments of human fantasies. To him, the humans who live righteously suffer tragedies, while the evil live free to do whatever they want, adding that since divine punishment doesn't exist, mentally weak people therefore believe the evil go to hell upon death. He tells them that they keep this belief deep in their minds and calls humans pitiful. Inosuke decides that instead, he'll create hell for Doma.
Inosuke yells at Doma to get back down so they can continue fighting.
As he charges, telling Doma to stop talking about his mother's life as unfortunate, Doma retaliates with Blood Demon Art: Freezing Clouds. Inosuke uses Beast Breathing, Tenth Fang: Whirling Fangs, rotating his blades to disperse the icy cloud. Kanao attempts to attack Doma from behind but he anticipates it, swiping his fans at her neck. Though she parries the fan, his swipe still knocks her into the water. Doma clings to the roof, causing Inosuke to yell for him to come down and face him. Doma tells them that as Akaza is defeated, he no longer has the time, instead creating ice dolls using Crystalline Divine Child to fight the Demon Slayers.
Doma tells Kanao and Inosuke that the ice dolls are as powerful as him.
As they land, Inosuke and Kanao are confused, but are soon shocked when the dolls use Scattering Lotuses to fight them. Doma tells them the ice dolls are as powerful as him, leaving them to it as he walks away, making Inosuke furious. Kanao tells him to focus on the battle, as a doll uses Frozen Lotus to slash at Inosuke, forcing him back. Doma notices Inosuke isn't breathing in his fog, confusing him. As the dolls use Cold White Princesses and envelopes the room with more fog, Inosuke becomes incensed that everything around him is freezing. Doma is intrigued by him as a fighter he had never face. He decide to force the Demon Slayers to use all their techniques, as information would be useful in future to kill them.
Doma's face began to melting from Shinobu's poison.
As Kanao is forced to hold back another Lotus Vines onslaught, she hopes she and Inosuke can keep Doma inside the room with them for a little longer. However, Doma immediately decide to create a fifth doll to kill the combatants quicker, or face getting scolded. With that, he forges one in his fans and releases it, the doll immediately deploying Wintry Icicles to knock Kanao back further. Soon, Inosuke's arms get slashed by the icy vines, worrying Kanao and telling him to hold out for longer. She herself becomes overwhelmed by the continual slashes of the ice lotuses. Doma overhears her and is confused at how they will survive for any longer. Knowing his dolls will record everything during the battle, he decides to leave.
As Doma opens the door of the cult room, his face begins to melt, confusing him, to Kanao's hope. He collapses to the floor and suddenly thinks back to Shinobu.
In the past, Shinobu and Kanao converse about if they ever encountered Upper Rank Two. Shinobu believes if she encountered him, and Kanao happened to fight alongside her, she would need to be eaten first, shocking her younger sister. Kanao pleads that she and her would fight the demon together, only for Shinobu to respond back by telling her to abandon those thoughts. Though she knows an Upper Rank is as strong as three Hashiras at minimum, according to their late sister Kanae, Upper Two is gluttonous, with an obsession for eating women.
Doma collapsed further from the effect of Shinobu's poison
Shinobu knows if the demon faces a Hashira with great abilities, a body in excellent condition and is a woman, he would definitely eat her, worrying Kanao further. She tells Kanao that her body is currently concentrated with wisteria poison. As Kanao tells her she is also willing to go through the same thing, Shinobu tells her it is impossible to reach her level; she had been absorbing the poison for over a year. Shinobu confesses she was the first to do such a feat, herself unsure of the potential side effects in the future and unsure if her plan would work on an Upper Rank or even Muzan. She states her sword has 50 millilitres of poison, but whatever demon consume her would also consume 37 kilograms worth of poison in her body weight.
Kanao explains to Inosuke that Shinobu's poison is affecting Doma.
Doma collapses further from the effects of Shinobu's poison, his arm falling off, his bones melting and his regeneration failing. He realizes he never felt the poison circulate through him until now. His ice dolls soon fracture and collapse as well, to Inosuke's confusion. Kanao realises Shinobu's poison is working and they now have Doma cornered.
Shinobu tells Kanao she doesn't know even if a life's worth of expertise on poison would work on an Upper Rank Demon. Kagaya Ubuyashiki himself had deemed it impossible but advised her to consult with a demon for further knowledge. Shinobu tells her sister, if the poison did start working, she must never let her guard down still, adding the only sure way to kill Upper Two is severed his neck. She knows she will definitely weaken him and tells Kanao to deal the finishing blow.
Kanao resolves to not let Shinobu's sacrifice be in vain.
Kanao becomes assured she will kill Upper Two and resolves to not let Shinobu's sacrifice be in vain. As she and Inosuke converged on Doma, he summons his final technique: Blood Demon Art: Rime - Water Lily Bodhisattva, forming a massive ice bodhisattva that towers over them. With the two stunned at this new threat, the giant ice figure slams down onto the cult room pond, sending Inosuke and Kanao flying back. Kanao realises if they get forced away from the fog, Doma will have the time to recover, and if they entered the fog and inhaled it, they would no longer be able to fight. However, she notices though Doma's bodhisattva is powerful, it is shoddy; Doma has lost all his precision and creating it was a last ditch effort. She decides to use her own last technique and remembers her last moments with Shinobu.
Kanao remembers Shinobu's warning about the backlash of Final Form: Equinoctial Vermilion Eye.
Shinobu warns her that using the technique might blind her; eyeballs are delicate, with very thin blood vessels and nerves, telling her not to endanger and burden herself by releasing such power. Kanao rejects her warning, asking why should she worry about her vision when Shinobu gave her own life. She calls her sister a sweet and honorable person, declaring she wanted to protect her with her life, and she wanted her, Aoi, Sumi, Kiyo and Naho and herself to all go home together.
Kanao swings her blade at Doma's decaying head.
Kanao activates Flower Breathing: Final Form - Equinoctial Vermillion Eye, causing her eyes to flush full of blood and her perception heightened even further than ever. The giant bodhisattva becomes slow in her eyes; she can see its hand about to slam down. She realises her scleras are turning red and quickly slices up the ice figure's hand to reach Doma. As she swings her katana at Doma's decaying head, the bodhisattva turns back and blasts Kanao with the icy fog, freezing her back and arms. Her sword reaches his neck but she can no longer swing further with her arms stuck frozen. Inosuke sees this and uses a new technique, Sudden Throwing Strike, hurling his blades at Doma.
His swords hit Kanao's, driving the blade through Doma's neck and decapitating him.
Doma is in disbelief at losing to Shinobu, and Kanao, and Inosuke.
Doma is in disbelief at having his head sliced off. He expresses self pity for losing to a sword-wielder who didn't have enough strength to slice off necks, even though he had put much effort into what he believed was for other people's sakes. However, he doesn't give up right away and thinks to himself that he still has a chance and might not die, like Muzan. He also knows Akaza was also to replicate his feat.
However, as his head falls to the floor and bounces, his body begins to disintegrate and he realizes he is going to die. He thinks to himself how he doesn't feel anything, recalling back to a moment in his childhood: his mother had stabbed his father to death after the latter had flirted with numerous female followers, later committing suicide via poison shortly after.
Despite this tragedy, his only thoughts were about ventilating the room; he couldn't comprehend the deaths because of his apathy and was only bothered by the smell of their blood. Doma remembers how he was turned into a demon at the age of 20 and lived over a century, but in the end, human emotions had been alien to him.
In purgatory, Shinobu holds Doma's head in her hand, the former expressing relief at Doma's death. With a smile, she states that she can now be at rest. Doma greets her, asking whether her name was Shinobu or Kanae. Shinobu smiles and tells him that he doesn't have to remember their names, asking him not to address them because it was creepy. Doma compliments Shinobu about the intensity of the poison she used on him, claiming he didn't notice the poison until it had fully circulated his body.
Shinobu meets Doma in the afterlife.
Shinobu explains that Tamayo had assisted in making that poison, expressing her slight frustration that if she could, she would have wanted to kill Doma with a poison she had made herself. Additionally, despite Muzan still being alive, she also expresses faith that one of her peers will kill him as well. Suddenly, Doma claims that his missing heart feels like it is beating, asking Shinobu whether this was love and expressing his surprise that emotions did indeed exist. He then goes on to think that heaven and hell may exist as well, asking Shinobu whether she wanted to go to hell with him. To this, the latter tells him to go to hell already.
Meanwhile, Inosuke stomps on the place where Doma's disintegrated head once was, yelling insults. Growing dizzy, he falls to the ground. He then recalls a conversation he had with Tanjiro and Zenitsu. Inosuke had been yelling that he didn't have a mother. Tanjiro tells him that everyone has to have a mother, to which Inosuke responds that he was abandoned which meant that his mother did not want him. Zenitsu replies that if Inosuke had truly been abandoned, his mother wouldn't have bothered to name him.
Kanao searches for Shinobu's hairpin.
Inosuke retorts back that he doesn't have memories of his mother which was the same as not having one at all. Tanjiro gently reminds him to not speak of his mother that way, stating that his mother must have loved him a lot.Inosuke begins to cry as he remembers his mother. Kanao, on the other hand, looks for Shinobu's hair clip, noting her inability to see clearly from her right eye. She realizes her own hairclip, formerly Kanae's, is now broken, to her sadness. Kanao apologizes to her older sister and recalls the time when Kanae had died; she had been unable to cry at that time, bothering her greatly.
Kanao had been making excuses inside her heart. Being born into an abusive household where crying would result in a punishment, she had been used to holding back her emotions; however, no one at that time blamed her. Kanao finds Shinobu's butterfly hairclip and clutches it to her chest, when she feels the apparitions of Shinobu and Kanae softly patting her head and telling her she did well.
Shinobu reunited with Kanae in the afterlife.
Kanao looks up only to find they weren't there. Shinobu reunites with her sister and her parents in the afterlife. In the pond, holding both her adoptive sisters' hairpins, Kanao begins to cry.
After losing consciousness following his battle, Tanjiro has his rest interrupted by the scent of something burning. He awakens to find Giyu beside him, patched up and stoking a small fire with his katana. As Tanjiro asks if his katana is chipped, Giyu explains that he had tried to stop the bleeding of his wounds, but when that failed he resorted to cauterizing his wounds instead, which unsettles Tanjiro. He also notes that if the cut on his own arm also doesn't stop bleeding, he can cauterize for him as well, though Tanjiro politely refuses the offer. Giyu asks if the bone in his arm is alright, to which Tanjiro answers that it is only a bruise.
Mitsuri and Obanai encounter Nakime.
The Hashira solemnly remarks that their battle was only the beginning, with the final target being Muzan, and they may have to battle Upper Two or One next. The two are interrupted by a Kasugai crow announcing that Shinobu, Kanao, and Inosuke have jointly defeated Upper Two, much to their surprise; Tanjiro asks the crow if the two are alright, who answers they mostly are. He is amazed by their victorious and the realization they are closing in on Muzan. Elsewhere, Mitsuri locates Nakime and discovers her rank of Upper Four. Obanai is surprised by this, knowing that Muichiro and the others had already defeated Upper Four and correctly believing the new demon is a replacement.
Knowing Shinobu was younger than her and still risked her life to do her best, Mitsuri vows to do the same, only to be caught by Nakime and thrown aside by a slamming door. Obanai reacts and catches the Love Hashira, who is embarrassed to have acted so hastily. Obanai explains that as they don't know Nakime's ability, they must analyze her first, but the two nearly fall again when Nakime summons a door beneath them. They catch the door frame in time to save themselves, but Mitsuri is cut off by consecutive opening doors while Obanai faces multiple columns attempting to crush him. Mitsuri is caughtby a column and nearly crushed when she slices it apart in the nick of time.
Confident she has recognized her opponent's patterns, Mitsuri tries again to attack Nakime, but the Biwa Demon summons a new door to take Mitsuri away from her, sending the disappointed Hashira falling again. Obanai closes in on Nakime and uses Serpent Breathing, Second Form: Venom Fangs of the Narrow Head, but the demon reacts by pushing herself away atop another column. He remarks that while not deadly, her Blood Demon Art is instead irritating and could prove a long and troublesome fight. Mitsuri on the other hand has narrowly saved herself by grabbing onto a wooden ledge.
The Mist Hashira comes face to face with Upper Rank One.
Together, Gyomei and Muichiro run through the castle in search of Muzan. But just as Gyomei tells him to not let his guard down, Muichiro is pushed away by a sliding column to the side. The Mist Hashira orders the Stone Hashira to pay him no heed as the column slams through a wooden wall, sending Muichiro into a vast hall of pillars and walls. Inside, Kokushibo spots the visitor in his room and remarks that he appears familiar, while Muichiro can barely comprehend he is now facing Upper Rank One.
Muichiro becomes afraid to fight Kokushibo.
Observing Muichiro through the Transparent World, Kokushibo recognizes something within him. In turn, Muichiro notes that Upper One doesn't appear like the other Upper Ranks, describing him as profoundly majestic. He also notes the katana at his side; despite its warped looks, he questions if the demon was once a Demon Slayer as well as a Breathing Style user. Muichiro begins to tremble uncontrollably as Upper One's intimidating aura overwhelms his senses; it is as if his body is refusing to fight, something he never felt in the past. Kokushibo asks his opponent for his name, and upon hearing the Mist Hashira answer him as Muichiro Tokito, the demon claims that the name Tsugikuni had inevitably died out over the centuries.
Confused by his statement, Muichiro listens as Kokushibo explains his human name was Michikatsu Tsugikuni, and that Muichiro is a member of the family left behind by his son, making him Kokushibo's descendant. Muichiro is stunned by the revelation, as well as the fact that Kokushibo is likely a user of the original Breathing Style. However, he puts his mind at ease and stops shaking, facing Upper One with a determined expression. To this, Kokushibo shows admiration to the Mist Hashira's mental fortitude.
Kokushibo dodges Muichiro's attack, identifying him as a Mist Breathing user.
Muichiro suddenly lunges for an attack using Mist Breathing, Second Form: Eight-Layered Mist, but despite the rapid attack, Kokushibo nonchalantly appears behind him, commending him for his usage of Mist Breathing. Muichiro attacks him again, this time with Fifth Form: Sea of Clouds and Haze, but the demon is easily able to evade the form once again. He addresses Muichiro and notes that despite being only fourteen years of age, his technique is highly refined and he possesses the courage to calm himself to attack him. Kokushibo credits this to his blood; despite it thinning out over generations, his cells have remained and proliferated in him.
Hearing this, Muichiro rejects the notion of his ancestry being his strength; he remarks that after hundreds of years, none of his blood is still in him, as the mark appears on his face. As Kokushibo becomes surprised to see it, Muichiro uses Mist Breathing, Seventh Form: Obscuring Clouds and seemingly cloaks himself in mist. Upper One grows impressed, noting that previous Mist Breathing users had never used such a form; Muichiro suddenly aims his blade at his neck, but the demon once more is able to dodge the attack. He commends his seventh form for its unique tempo and the difficulty to read the disturbances in his movement.
Kokushibo attacks Muichiro and severs his hand.
Amazed at the realization Muichiro had likely created the form, Kokushibo remarks that it would be rude of him not to unsheathe his blade. He draws his katana and uses Moon Breathing, First Form: Dark Moon, Evening Palace, severing Muichiro's left hand. The Mist Hashira is stunned by his use of Moon Breathing, realizing that a demon able to use a Breathing Style has speed completely unseen before. Ripping off his left sleeve, Muichiro quickly ties the fabric around his arm to stop the bleeding; Kokushibo commends his spirit to stop the bleeding and immediately go for another attack against him.
The Hashira attempts to use Mist Breathing, Fourth Form: Shifting Flow Slash but Kokushibo catches the katana mid-attack and stabs Muichiro against a pillar with it. The demon asks Muichiro for a chance to transform him into a demon and be of use to Muzan.
Kokushibo stands before Muichiro as he hangs, pinned by his own katana against a pillar. He claims his heart is moved to see a descendant of his, something he never imagined, and reassures the Mist Hashira that his arm will regrow when he becomes a demon. The Upper Rank also believes he is now the only remaining Upper Rank able to fight, and that Muzan will welcome him as well. He proceeds to gently patch Muichiro's arm stump, believing humans to be fragile. However, he nonetheless claims that if he bleeds out and dies, or Muzan does not accept him as a demon, then his death will have always been his ultimate fate as a human.
Kokushibo severs both of Genya's arms.
Having entered the room, Genya sneaks behind a wall as Kokushibo ties a tourniquet for Muichiro's wound, but as he fires his shotgun, the Upper Rank instantly appears behind the Demon Slayer and asks if he agrees with his sentiment. Genya's left arm suddenly falls off as he remains too paralyzed with fear to react. Muichiro screams for Genya, but as the Demon Slayer attempts to draw his wakizashi, his right arm flies from his body; Kokushibo had slashed him so quickly, it appeared as if he never moved his hand. Upper One notices that the Demon Slayer has been eating demons, just as he slashes Genya in the torso; Muichiro frantically attempts to free himself but cannot pull out the katana. Seeing he is still alive despite his grievous wounds, he reminisces on a similar Demon Slayer who lived 300 years ago and how he too ate demons but was killed when Kokushibo beheaded him.
Sanemi arrives in the nick of time.
Genya desperately attempts to crawl towards his severed arm as Kokushibo declares he has no reason to allow an "imitation demon" such as him to live. But as his katana nears Genya's neck, Sanemi suddenly appears, using Wind Breathing, Fourth Form: Rising Dust Storm to push the demon away from Genya. Kokushibo sees he now faces the Wind Hashira as he responds to his assertion: "That's right! And that wind... is gonna wrench your head off!" Genya is shocked to find his older brother before him, who responds by calling him a pathetic brother. He then reveals the reasons he went so far as to kill their own mother was to protect him.
This causes Genya to recall a past conversation he had with Tanjiro, who notes that despite Sanemi loathing the fact he is a Demon Slayer, he never detected any hatred in him. He doesn't need to be afraid of Sanemi and should be free to speak his mind, because he had always loved him. Sanemi shares his hope that Genya would have a home, a family, and grow old; to make up for the things they could never do with their mother and younger siblings, Genya was supposed to get married and have children. "And I would've never let a demon near you." As Genya apologizes to his brother upon hearing his revelation, Kokushibo observes them and remarks about the nostalgic feeling to see brothers as Demon Slayers together.
Sanemi attacks Kokushibo with First Form: Dust Whirlwind Cutter.
Enraged by the Upper Rank's maiming of Genya, Sanemi lunges towards Kokushibo head-on. Upper Rank One slashes at him, but Sanemi ducks down and slides between the demon's legs, attempting to catch his foot. Kokushibo evades the slash by leaping upwards, but Sanemi responds with Wind Breathing, First Form: Dust Whirlwind Cutter; he charges at the Upper Rank as he lands and forces Kokushibo into a clash of blades to stop him from advancing. Muichiro sees the demon has finally drawn his weapon as Sanemi remarks about the katana's repulsive appearance; the blade is covered in numerous twitching eyes.
Kokushibo uses Fifth Form: Moon Spirit Calamitous Eddy.
As the Wind Hashira and Upper Rank One clash blades, the demon unleashes Moon Breathing, Fifth Form: Moon Spirit Calamitous Eddy, creating a rotating ring of slashes and moon-like blades that force his opponent to back away. Noting that Kokushibo is able to repeat the slashes with a swing of his blade, Sanemi goes for a counterattack and meets the demon with Wind Breathing, Third Form: Clear Storm Wind Tree. Kokushibo lauds the Wind Hashira's physicality and technique as being at their peak, while Sanemi silently remarks that the demon's display of skill is giving him goosebumps.
He sees that each of his slashes is enveloped in chaotic crescent blades that change in size and form, making them unpredictable, and he claims to not be surprised that Muichiro was defeated. Unable to ward off any of the attacks completely, he notes that without his own experience, he would have never been able to defend himself. Furthermore, Sanemi is amazed by Kokushibo's use of a Breathing Style; the combination of his speed with the regeneration and physical prowess of being a demon making him an opponent whose power will only climb.
Sanemi and Kokushibo trade blows.
He excitedly claims Kokushibo is a demon worth killing and uses Wind Breathing, Second Form: Claws - Purifying Wind to slash at his demonic katana. Kokushibo swipes away the wind gusts but is met by the Hashira leaping down to slash at his neck. He blocks Sanemi's katana but senses something from underneath, narrowly moving his neck away from the Hashira attempting to use Genya's fallen wakizashi with his foot. The two continue to trade blows as the Hashira matches the Upper Rank's every move with an attack of his own; Kokushibo notices Sanemi is keeping up with him and remarks about its nostalgic feeling.
Kokushibo injures Sanemi with Sixth Form: Perpetual Night, Lonely Moon - Incessant.
As Muichiro and Genya call out to him, Sanemi begins to grow frustrated at his lack of breathing room, noting that he almost died because he narrowly misses the tip of his swing. Kokushibo reminisces on a time during the Sengoku period when he and the Wind Hashira of then would spar together to improve their skills. Using Moon Breathing, Sixth Form: Perpetual Night, Lonely Moon - Incessant, Kokushibo unleashes a frontal wave of slashes and blades, cutting Sanemi across his chest and limbs and additionally slash apart the surrounding pillars. Genya bemoans being unable to see the battle with the pillars and lattice walls obstructing his view.
As Sanemi stand and begins to bleed heavily from his cuts, Kokushibo commends his opponent for holding out until now. But as he warns him that moving will cause his organs to spill, his pulse begins to quicken, much to his confusion. Sanemi laughs to himself as he explains that Marechi to demons is like silver vine to cats. He suddenly attacks Kokushibo again, who stumbles back and staggers from Sanemi's slash as the Wind Hashira becomes excited to see that his blood works on even Upper Rank demons.
Soon after he began hunting demons, Sanemi noticed that his blood was special, as when his mother attacked him, her movements slowed when he began to bleed; he also remarks that after killing her, it was as if the colors of the world had faded. Because he did not know about the Demon Slayer Corps or Nichirin Swords, when he hunted demons, he did so by arming himself with numerous blades, fighting to restrain them before leaving them to burn in the sunlight. He acknowledges that his past efforts were suicidal and what saved him was his blood being able to intoxicate demons.
Sanemi mourning Masachika's death.
One day, he met a Demon Slayer who was also pursuing demons; his name was Masachika Kumeno and it was he who then introduced him to a trainer. Sanemi bitterly remarks about the unfairness of the world as good people would die one after another; during a battle they fought together against Lower Rank One, Masachika was killed and Sanemi went on to be the Wind Hashira.
As Sanemi attacks Kokushibo with Wind Breathing, Sixth Form: Black Wind Mountain Mist, the demon expresses surprise to see him continuing to fight. Acknowledging that previous Hashira he fought would never reach the stage he is at now, he notices Sanemi has stopped the bleeding of his wounds and wonders if he had coagulated his blood using Total Concentration Breathing or if he is flexing his muscles to stop his organs from spilling. Intrigued to see something he had never seen a human do before, Kokushibo then begins to enjoy the slight intoxication of Sanemi's Marechi, claiming it feels pleasant. He dodges a slash to the side and stomps down on Sanemi's katana. Unable to move, Sanemi watches as Kokushibo brings his blade down onto his neck.
The Hashira express their disapproval towards Sanemi's behaviour to Kagaya.
During his first Hashira meeting, Sanemi became angered to see Kagaya Ubuyashiki smile, claiming he did so as others suffered and believing him to be someone who refused to dirty his hands, hiding behind safety as he gave out orders with an unconcerned expression. His first words to the Oyakata, "Well, aren't you something? Hey! Master Ubuyashiki", drew the ire of Gyomei Himejima and Tengen Uzui, while Kanae Kocho sat by concerned. As Gyomei claims that the Wind Hashira does not appear to know how to speak properly, angrily cracking his rosary, Kagaya assuages the Stone Hashira and allows Sanemi to speak his mind. When Kanae spoke, Kagaya reassured the Flower Hashira and remained composed.
Sanemi angrily claims he is sickened by the Oyakata shamelessly using the Corps members as pawns, to be used and thrown away. He accuses Kagaya of not knowing any martial arts as the head of the Demon Slayer Corps, but to Sanemi's astonishment, Kagaya apologizes to him, causing the angered Hashira to stop his tirade. He mentions that he once tried to swing a sword, but it caused his blood pressure to spike and he was unable to do so even ten times. He would have wanted to be a Demon Slayer like him, to be a strong swordsman to protect others, but because it was impossible for him, he apologizes for making him do the hard work.
Kanae reveals Kagaya's devotion to the Demon Slayer Corps.
Sanemi cannot think of a response to his words and notes that the look on Kagaya's face made him think back to his mother; the affection he gave was like a parent towards their own children. He adds that if Sanemi believes they are pawns, then he is one as well; since his replacement has already been chosen, his death would be meaningless. Kagaya acknowledges that this is Sanemi's first meeting and clears up his confusion that he believes himself to be higher than them; everyone simply treats him with respect but he can be free to avoid it if it bothered him.
Instead, Kagaya only requests that he protect the lives of others as a Hashira and he apologizes for summoning him soon after Masachika's death. When Sanemi becomes surprised to hear Kagaya speak his name, Kanae revealed that since becoming Oyakata, Kagaya has memorized the name and background of every fallen member of the Corps. Sanemi is shocked further by this as he himself has forgotten the names of the Demon Slayers he fought beside. Kagaya explains that every member of the Corps has written a will; they are all similar and Masachika's was no different, as he gives it to Sanemi.
Masachika had thought of him as the younger brother he lost, and like Kagaya's own dream, he hoped for a shining future. A wish for loved ones to smile and live happily till their death without their lives cruelly threatened. Even if those loved ones aren't beside them, they must want them to live and survive; as he continues to read Masachika's will, Sanemi begins to think about Genya and tears up.
Kokushibo blocks Sanemi's shotgun blast.
Sanemi blocks Kokushibo's blade with Genya's fallen shotgun and fires at the demon, but to his chagrin, Kokushibo remains unfazed as he blocks the pellets with his katana. Using Moon Breathing, Third Form: Loathsome Moon, Chains, Kokushibo attempts to kill Sanemi once again but finds he has vanished as the dust cloud of his attack settles. He hears something approaching him and remarks that Demon Slayers appear one after another. Hearing this, Gyomei promises that the Demon Slayer Corps will never disappear until every demon is eradicated from the world.
Having arrived just in time to save the Wind Hashira, Gyomei immediately orders him to stitch his wounds as he takes on Kokushibo himself, which Sanemi acknowledges. The Stone Hashira faces Upper One and begins to spin his flail; observing his new opponent through the Transparent World, Kokushibo grows delighted at Gyomei's physicality, remarking that it had been 300 years since he fought a Demon Slayer of his strength. Gyomei begins to spin his flail faster, causing air to rush past Kokushibo as he realizes it is being drawn towards him.
Kokushibo fails to cut through Gyomei's chain.
Gyomei releases his grip and launches the spiked flail, sending it flying towards the demon and narrowly missing his mark. Kokushibo attempts to use his Moon Breathing but is forced to bend backwards and avoid Gyomei's axe, which he threw immediately after his first attack. He attempts again but Gyomei attacks first with Stone Breathing, Second Form: Upper Smash, stomping down on his chain and driving the flail down to his opponent. Kokushibo dodges to the side but the chain wraps around his neck; he fails to cut through the links and is forced to duck down to escape getting strangled, losing a lock of hair in the process as it burns on contact.
He notes that the chain, axe, and flail are all made of pure iron, making it an extremely refined weapon; as his sword is made of his own flesh, it will burn itself on Gyomei's weapon before it will ever break. He notes that iron that has absorbed so much sunlight wasn't discovered during the Sengoku period, when sword smithing was at its peak. Nonetheless, he knows that going into striking range will benefit him; Kokushibo lunges for an attack and swings at Gyomei's neck. To his surprise, he misses completely as Gyomei leaps high above the attack and throws his axe at him, ripping a part of his haori.
Gyomei's Volcanic Rock, Rapid Conquest clashes with Kokushibo's Pearl Flower Moongazing.
As the Stone Hashira continues, Kokushibo is shocked to see someone capable of wielding such a weapon still being able to fight with belying lightness and agility. The chain wraps around Kokushibo's sword and snaps its blade before the demon can move it. The Hashira and the Upper Rank then meet in a head-on clash of techniques; Kokushibo uses Moon Breathing, Second Form: Pearl Flower Moongazing and Gyomei meets this with Stone Breathing, Fourth Form: Volcanic Rock, Rapid Conquest.
In the aftermath, Kokushibo reveals that whenever his blade breaks, it will always heal, rendering attacks against it useless, while Gyomei on the other hand has sustained a cut across the face. Breathing deeply, he remarks that he had wanted to save it for Muzan but if he was to fail now, he will fall back to where he started. Declaring that he has nothing to lose using it, Gyomei flexes his arms and manifests the mark.
Within another part of the Infinity Castle, Kanao and Inosuke leave Doma's water garden and head out, where they are about to reunite with Zenitsu and Murata behind a corner, the latter of which is supporting the former as he awakens from the ordeal from his recent battle.
After enough effort, Muichiro is finally able to pull his katana out from the pillar and extricate himself. Under immense pain, he pulls the blade out from his shoulder, throwing it aside as he keels over and absorbs the pain. Slowly beginning the process of patching himself up, he notes the horrible state his body is under all of his wounds, remarking that he isn't blessed with a physique like Tengen Uzui. Regardless, Muichiro acknowledges he must at least defeat Upper Rank One to lessen the burden of the survivors; if he was going to die, he very well may do so being useful. He picks up his katana and begins to head out, but is called to by Genya before he can fight.
Surprised to see the Demon Slayer still alive, Muichiro hears Genya as he request for him to push his body towards his torso and give him the fallen lock of Kokushibo's hair to eat. He hopes to fight till the end and prevent Sanemi from dying, which Muichiro agrees to.
"Without exception, the marked ones die... before they reach the age of 25."
Noticing the mark on Gyomei, Kokushibo remarks about his situation being unfortunate. When Gyomei questions him on this, the demon notes that based on his appearance, Gyomei is 27 years of age. The Stone Hashira presses him on what he means and Kokushibo reveals that anyone who awakens the mark will die before the age of 25. Even when it manifests and increases his power, it will merely reduce his lifespan in exchange; being past the age of 25, he will likely die soon during the night. He asks if he will lament that the body and techniques he has refined his entire life will fade with his death, to which Gyomei replies that he does not; everyone is aware of the fate of being marked.
Yet it does not matter to him if it appeared or not; being in the Demon Slayer Corps already means he has no guarantee of seeing the next day. He questions if he should try cling to his life already knowing his fate and believes one cannot become a Hashira with such half-hearted conviction, before declaring that Kokushibo's insult to his existence is making him seethe with rage. An unimpressed Kokushibo replies he was not speaking about his life; he explains that by becoming a demon, he can preserve his body and techniques, calling him foolish for not understanding him. Gyomei retorts there is nothing to understand; the Demon Slayers are proud to live and die as humans, and he demands the demon stop taking his own ideas as the supreme beliefs to force onto others.
He then adds that he sensed a lie whilst they were talking, and that someone must have lived past the age of 25 whilst bearing the mark. This causes Kokushibo to pause; Gyomei proudly claims he is shaken by his taunt as Upper One angrily attempts to kill him by slashing his neck. The Stone Hashira blocks the attack with his chains and they resume battle once more.
The Wind Hashira awakens the mark.
Hiding behind a wall, Sanemi has finished stitching his wounds; he stands up and begins breathing heavily as the mark manifests on his face. Kokushibo and Gyomei trade blows until Sanemi joins the battle and goes on the offensive. As Kokushibo remarks that every Hashira of their generation is seemingly marked, he sees the Wind Hashira duck to the side as Gyomei's flail flies towards him, followng by Sanemi slashing at his feet and forcing the demon away. He realizes that the two are coordinating their attacks despite the two different Breathing Styles and the battle's fast tempo; Sanemi remarks he is glad to have undertaken Hashira Training with him.
After being fed the lock of Kokushibo's hair, Genya begins to breathe heavily and convulse as Muichiro calls out to him in worry. His arm reattaches as an eerie voice rings in his head; Genya questions who the voice belongs to as he sees that his torso has already reconnected itself and he continues to heal at a rapid rate. Noting that all this came from eating just a lock of hair, he wonders just how concentrated Upper Rank One's blood truly is. As his circulation accelerates, he sees there is also the broken piece of the demon's katana, but the voice rings inside him again, asking Kokushibo for how many Hashiras he has killed and warning him not to let them near yet. Realizing he is hearing Muzan's voice, he begins to wonder what will happen to him next if his advancement as a demon continues.
The Wind and Stone Hashira continue to attack Upper Rank One.
As he continues to fight the Stone and Wind Hashira, Kokushibo surmises that even amongst their peers, Gyomei and Sanemi are likely the strongest fighters. He makes emphasis on Gyomei; a Demon Slayer of unparalleled physicality irrespective of his blindness. Furthermore, his weapon is particularly well-crafted; by causing vibrations in the chain, Gyomei is able to accurately read his surroundings. Deciding he will destroy Sanemi's katana first, Kokushibo determines he can strike it on its side to shatter it easily, but Sanemi intercepts the slash and drives Kokushibo's katana into the floor. Seeing his reflexes are still building up, Kokushibo lunges back to avoid a slash that cuts off some of his hair.
Despite his mark empowering him, the demon still believes the Wind Hashira shouldn't be able to fight with all his wounds, yet his movements are only accelerating and becoming more precise. Gyomei suddenly appears in front of him and slashes his axe upwards, cutting off Kokushibo's ear. Sanemi follows through with this by performing Wind Breathing, First Form: Dust Whirlwind Cutter, cutting between them to separate Kokushibo. Together, Sanemi and Gyomei use Wind Breathing, Seventh Form: Gale, Sudden Gusts and Stone Breathing, First Form: Serpentinite Bipolar, ripping off Kokushibo's kimono. As they leap away and land, they immediately rush in for another attack, attempting to go for his head.
Gyomei and Sanemi are injured by Kokushibo.
However, Kokushibo merely stands and encourages them to attack. Sanemi and Gyomei are suddenly covered in numerous slashes before they can get close; Gyomei questions how he managed to attack at range and watches as Kokushibo reveals his katana, now greatly extended and sporting three new cutting edges along its main blade. The demon claims they merely shredded his kimono, "not even enough to kill an infant", and he remarks that after killing the two, everyone will be dispatched with ease.
As Genya ties Muichiro's sword to his remaining hand, Sanemi is narrowly hit by Kokushibo's attack and loses his index and middle fingers on his right hand. Cursing his inability to react to the demon's strike, Sanemi notes that if Gyomei had not diverted the attack's trajectory with his chain, he would have lost both of his arms. The more injuries he sustains, the slower he becomes until he is reduced to being a burden in battle; additionally, his Marechi blood is no longer affecting Kokushibo despite initially working on him. Most concerning is how Kokushibo is able to wield such an immense weapon at incredible speeds, questioning if he could even dodge the next attack or slash the sword to pieces.
Viewing the battle from a Kasugai crow wearing Yushiro's talisman, Kuina Ubuyashiki becomes startled by the turn of events and asks Kiriya if they should send more Hashira to fight Upper Rank One, noting that Tanjiro and Giyu are available. As she and Kanata anxiously wait for an answer, Kiriya decides against it and insists that Tanjiro and Giyu continue towards Muzan instead; he reaffirms his belief in Gyomei, Sanemi, Muichiro, and Genya to defeat Upper One without fail.
Kokushibo uses Moon Breathing, Eighth Form: Moon-Dragon Ringtail.
Kokushibo raises his weapon and unleashes Moon Breathing, Seventh Form: Mirrors of Misfortune, Moonlit, launching powerful long-range slashes at the two Hashira. Though Sanemi and Gyomei barely dodge them, the latter noting that the attack possesses twice the demon's normal attack range, Kokushibo follows through with Eight Form: Moon-Dragon Ringtail; a wide-arcing slash enveloped in crescent blades that cuts Sanemi numerous times. Sanemi curses the situation; he cannot aim for his head since he cannot get close, and with the demon's speed, he can only ward off his attacks defensively, which still take his full effort to do so. Kokushibo uses Ninth Form: Waning Moonswaiths to separate Sanemi from Gyomei, causing a large cut in the Wind Hashira's back.
Kokushibo uses Drilling Slashes, Moon Through Bamboo Leaves against Sanemi.
As Sanemi stumbles, Gyomei calls out to him; he orders Gyomei to ignore him as Kokushibo uses Tenth Form: Drilling Slashes, Moon Through Bamboo Leaves, launching sawblade-like projections that close in on Sanemi. Suddenly, the Wind Hashira is pushed away from the attack as the Mist Hashira grabs hold of him; Muichiro tells Sanemi he won't let him die as he can still use both of his arms. Watching the battle from behind cover, Genya questions if he can be useful in battle or if Kokushibo will simply slash through his torso again. Seeing Sanemi and Muichiro struggling, he promises to not let Sanemi die and to not fail now. As he thinks about Gyomei and Muichiro, he is anguished by his weakness and wishes he was as strong as the Hashira, and the more he wishes to save them, the more hesitant he becomes to act.
Afraid of failing to be of any use and save his friends, Genya asks why he had to be so weak, only to recall a previous chat with Tanjiro. Tanjiro had encouraged him by stating that the weakest amongst a group of people has the most potential. When he fought Upper Rank Six, it was because he was weak that he changed the tides of battle. Surpassing enough people means an opponent will categorize them into the strong and focus on being vigilant against them; if the enemy believes him to be weak, their guard won't be as strong against them and they can deal an unexpected blow; doing that will pave the way to victory.
Remembering Tanjiro's words, Genya steels his resolves to save the Hashira and win, revealing the broken shard of Kokushibo's katana blade. Vowing to not let Sanemi, the Oyakata, or any of his friends die, he swallows the katana blade; despite initially wanting to save it for when he was attacked again, Genya had rejected this and has chosen to act now.
Kokushibo uses Sixteenth Form: Moonbow Half Moon.
Gyomei attempts to perform Stone Breathing, Fifth Form but is intercepted by Kokushibo's Moon Breathing, Sixteenth Form: Moonbow, Half Moon, summoning downward striking slashes around him and Sanemi. The Stone Hashira grows frustrated by how many forms his Breathing Style has, and most concerning is the battle's current direction; Kokushibo is too fast for them, he cannot attack in return, and despite his every actions being based on anticipation, the battle's pace is too fast for him. Making any mistake means Kokushibo will pin him before getting the chance to attack.
As the demon is seemingly predicting the moment he attempts to use a technique, Gyomei wonders what kind of divine power Kokushibo is using, what his eyes see and what he is seeing. Despite the tides of the battle, he resolves to find out, acknowledging that demons are just transformed humans; anything they can do, humans can as well, and he declares that his blind eyes can see a person's true nature, never to be misled.
Gyomei sees into the Transparent World.
As they continue, Gyomei watches Kokushibo performing an attack, and to his shock, he can perceive his pulse and see through his bones and muscles for a moment. At the same time, Muichiro resolves to get inside the demon's attack range; if he can slow down Upper Rank One's movements for even a second, it will enable Sanemi and Gyomei to behead him. Having lost an arm and with the bleeding continuing to worsen, he does not have much time left and pushes himself to act whilst he can move. Suddenly Gyomei yells out Sanemi's name, and simultaneously, all three Hashira charge towards Kokushibo; Muichiro realizes that the other Hashira are adjusting to his plan.
Muichiro stabs Kokushibo, losing his left leg.
Seeing this, Kokushibo remarks they have no option left but a frontal assault, which he can use to wipe out the three all at once. Using Moon Breathing, Fourteenth Form: Catastrophe, Tenman Crescent Moon, he envelops the area before him in swaths of large, rotating slashes covered in crescent blades. Muichiro pushes himself to squeeze between the gaps of the attack, while Sanemi resorts to ducking beneath the slashes instead. Gyomei suddenly throws a bead from his rosary, hitting Kokushibo's hand. Though it doesn't harm him, he questions if he threw it at the moment he swung his chain and how it got past his vision.
Kokushibo then bends back to avoid Sanemi's Dust Whirlwind Cutter but has his right arm destroyed by Gyomei's flail instantly afterwards. As he heals his arm and attempts to determine how Gyomei slipped past his view, his torso is unexpectedly stabbed by Muichiro, who loses his left leg and is slashed in the neck while doing so. However, his carotid artery isn’t harmed and allows Muichiro to keep fighting. Kokushibo questions how the wounded Muichiro slipped past his attacks; at first he believes it was due to Gyomei’s bead slowing him down, but he soon realizes that Muichiro’s eyes now see the same world as he is.
He also determines that Gyomei too is seeing through the Transparent World; though he only began using it in the middle of the fight, the Stone Hashira has already began fighting while taking his vision into account, manipulating his blood flow to disturb his attack pattern. Despite the unexpected developments of the battle, Kokushibo remains confident as none of their blades have reached his neck; if he can understand their plan, it will fall apart quickly. As he raising his katana to perform Moon Breathing’s sixteenth form, Muichiro resolves to hold on no matter what happens to him.
Kokushibo blocks Genya's shot.
Genya appears from behind cover, his eyes now red and yellow like Kokushibo’s and bearing a mark on his head. He recalls Muichiro’s previous words allowing him to shoot at Kokushibo despite being in the bullets’ path, to pay him no heed anymore; if he can stop Kokushibo from moving, he must shoot without hesitation. Pointing his now altered shotgun, Genya fires at Upper One, who reacts by slashing away the bullets.
Genya's Blood Demon Art of trees ensnares Kokushibo.
Despite deflecting Genya's shot with his blade, Kokushibo sees the pellets have redirected and punched into his body. He notices Genya and sees that along with his new appearance, his shotgun is changing form. Suddenly, the pellets in his body begin to soak in his blood, sprouting into giant trees that prevent him from moving; Genya's own Blood Demon Art, and he was able to achieve so by absorbing his hair and the piece of his blade. Now trapped and unable to fight, Kokushibo watches as the Hashira all converge on him at once; he is disturbed by the feeling, that of his life being threatened and his core seizing up. His composure crumbles in a detestable way as it brings back memories from 400 years ago.
That day, Kokushibo was out at night during a blood moon when he saw something he could hardly believe. His brother had approached him, now appearing old and decrepit; it had been 60 years since they last met, meaning Yoriichi was now in his 80s. He had thought it to be impossible and questioned how he still lived. He began asking how he survived given the curse of the mark supposedly killing him before the age of 25, when Yoriichi tearfully spoke and extended his sympathies towards him. "The old and ugly creature that was once my little brother... had pity for me", Kokushibo had remarked. Despite this, he himself was not angry; for 60 years he had been an eyesore in his life, but the voice calling out to him was hoarse.
"I was confused... by my own unexpected unrest."
The sensation of seeing Yoriichi crying before him, who he had known was emotionless for most of his life, gave him a feeling of confusion; he was confused by why he was unsettled to see him. He knew then that he had to kill Yoriichi and remove the last fragment of his life as a human. He was an old man past his prime, but he remained a Demon Slayer, someone he had to kill. However, Yoriichi's sentimentality disappeared as he reached for his katana and took his stance. Instantly, Kokushibo felt as if rocks had appeared on his shoulders as the weight of the air increased with his intimidating aura; Yoriichi had no openings in his stance.
Yoriichi slitting Kokushibo's neck.
His brother told him he was about to strike, but before Kokushibo could react, Yoriichi had already slit his throat. Boiling with rage, he turns to face him and asks why he had to be the special one. Despite bearing the mark, he continued to live, and the technique he displayed demonstrated his power and speed had not waned in the slightest. The vivid memories of his 60 year long grudge returned. Like jealousy burning his bones, his existence was to transcend the laws of the natural world and live like he was favored by the gods. Declaring that he hated and wanted to kill him, Kokushibo prepared for the next strike despite knowing it would kill him.
His speed, which had pushed Muzan into a corner, was nothing short of godly. He waited with a feeling of dread and unrest, as if his insides would burst to flames, but his wait was for nothing as Yoriichi never struck again; he had died standing up, his katana impaled in the ground.
As he observed Yoriichi's dead body, Kokushibo remarked that had he taken one more breath, he would have lost. For centuries, he continued to bear the indignity of never facing an honourable death; with Yoriichi's death, he will never see an honorable death. With the loss of the greatest swordsman to have ever lived, Kokushibo decided he could never lose again; he chose to continue winning, "...until... I became ugly... like this."
Kokushibo releases crescent blades from his body to free himself, mortally wounding Muichiro and Genya.
Kokushibo howls in fear of his life and releases powerful slashes from within his body without warning, narrowly missing Sanemi and Gyomei but cutting Muichiro's body below the waist and splitting Genya down the middle. Numerous katana blades cover his body; Muichiro is aghast at how he attacked so ferociously without swinging his sword, just by the sheer number of blades on him. Only moments ago, he was cornered, yet the monster that is Kokushibo is now pushing them on the brink again and he scrambles to find a way to help before his death. Nearby, the weakened Genya mutters of his hope to protect everyone regardless.
Sanemi and Gyomei attack Kokushibo together; Muichiro realizes they intend to fight him to the death, yet he cannot let them die. Muzan still awaits them and he seeks to protect the two. As Kokushibo prepares another attack, thinking quickly, the Mist Hashira grips his imbedded katana with all his might, causing it to turn bright red. Upper One feels as if his body is stiffening and his insides are set alight. Seeing him distracted allows Sanemi to land a blow on Kokushibo's neck, but the demon's durability proves too much and he can barely induce a cut in his skin. Genya, realizing his flesh bullets are still inside Kokushibo, sees the demon is distracted completely by the three Hashira.
Muichiro's blade turn bright red, burning Kokushibo.
He summons then once more and immobilizes Kokushibo completely again. Enraged by his predicament, Kokushibo prepares to release his crescent blades to kill Genya, but finds the attack cannot be released from his katana. Gyomei's flail hits home on his neck and back, burning Kokushibo as he screams in pain. Seeing his opponent's tremendous durability, Gyomei employs his axe and swings from underneath, pinning the Upper Rank's neck between both weapons. Kokushibo realizes his Blood Demon Art cannot be summon as the trees inside him are sucking his blood, and the pain in his body making him seize is coming from a red blade, similar to Yoriichi.
Upper Rank One is beheaded.
He flashes back to a time when he spoke with Yoriichi when they were both Demon Slayers; he had asked him on his plan to be succeeded. Nobody could compare to them, and because their Breathing Styles could not be taught to anyone, the techniques they have mastered will fade into history. Yoriichi spoke to his brother:
"My brother... we are not that great. We are merely a fragment of humankind's long, long history. At this moment, those whose talent will surpass ours are uttering their first cries. They may come to reach the same place. There is no need to worry. We can draw the curtain of life closed without unease at any time. Does that not exhilarate you? Brother?"
As Kokushibo reflects on his brother's words, Sanemi lands a powerful blow onto Gyomei's flail; the impact causes both weapons to turn bright red. As Upper Rank One's head finally falls from his shoulders, his brother's words ring in him once more. "Someday the children now being born will surpass us and ascend to even greater heights."
Kokushibo remarks about feeling disturbed whenever he saw Yoriichi smile; when they spoke about how the various Breathing Styles he taught had no successor, he smiled because he saw the situation with optimism. Kokushibo was proud of the fact that his generation alone was special, feeling sickened with disgust and irritation by his brother's baseless optimism for the future.
He curses the persistence of the Hashira as he recalls his memories of Yoriichi; the children of the future don't release their blades even when dismembered (Muichiro), they can use Blood Demon Arts as humans (Genya), they refuse to bleed to death as they are continually cut down (Sanemi), and they grow and surpass their limit at a rate that even matches demons (Gyomei). They do not use Sun Breathing, yet are able to turn their weapons bright red. He questions what he found amusing about such a future and claims that just the thought of losing is making him boil over with rage.
Upper Rank One vows to never again lose, even after a decapitation; with this, he stops the bleeding in his neck. Gyomei sees this and orders Sanemi to attack with everything he has and drive Kokushibo into a corner; Muichiro and Genya have given their lives and he refuses to let them die in vain. A tearful and enraged Sanemi acknowledges and promises to shred the demon into nothing. Using Wind Breathing, Eighth Form: Primary Gale Slash, Sanemi surrounds Kokushibo and slashes his body, while Gyomei performs Stone Breathing, Fifth Form: Arcs of Justice and strikes the area around the demon to trap him. Kokushibo slashes off Muichiro's dead body with his hand and attempts to pull his katana from out of his body.
Kokushibo's monstrous new form.
Declaring he will not crumble, he surmises he can still heal; with Muichiro and Genya's deaths, the bright red blade and Blood Demon Art of trees will fade and allow him to conquer death from decapitation. The Wind and Stone Hashira attack together but Kokushibo suddenly vanishes, before appearing behind them. The demon has regenerated his head, but his unstable regeneration has caused him to attained a grotesque, monstrous form. Sanemi is livid to see him regrow a head but Gyomei realizes his body will be weakened because of it. Seeing he does not heal as quickly as Muzan, they aim for his head again. Proud of his efforts, Kokushibo sees he has finally defeated death by being decapitated, leaving only the sun as the last option to kill him.
But as he boasts that he will never lose again, he sees his reflection in Sanemi's blade. Kokushibo is disgusted by his new form, before he suddenly hears a young Yoriichi's voice behind him. "My brother, is your dream to become the strongest samurai in the land? I want to be like you. I... want to become the second strongest samurai." He questions if what he appears now is truly the look of a samurai, if it was something he really wanted. In that moment, where Muichiro had stabbed him in the body begins to crumble to ash, distracting Kokushibo long enough for Gyomei to destroy his head once more.
Unable to attack, Kokushibo's body is destroyed Gyomei and Sanemi overwhelm him.
As Sanemi follows through with a ripping attack to shred his body, Kokushibo desperately attempts to use his Blood Demon Art but is unable to. As his body crumbles faster, he tries to believe he can still regenerate but sees Yoriichi's wizened visage before him, pitying the Upper Rank for his state. As Sanemi and Gyomei relentlessly destroy his body, Kokushibo remarks of his unwillingness to accept defeat, despite being decapitated, dismembered, and crushed by his enemies. He has been living in disgrace for hundreds of years just to die now, and he wonders if his fear of death had caused him to become a monster that eats humans.
"Did I become this miserable creature because I didn't want to die? No. Yoriichi... I just wanted to be you."
In reminiscence of his brother, Kokushibo remarks that anyone who has not felt jealousy is lucky to have never done so, that they have never met someone like Yoriichi, someone he believes was always favored by the gods. To him, it was as if Yoriichi was the very sun, shining so brightly and fiercely he consumed everything around him.
Yoriichi's mother sought to protect him for her husband.
During the time they were born, twins were considered a bad omen as they caused a struggle between them for succession. Additionally, Yoriichi was born with a large mark on his forehead, causing their father to consider having him killed. When their mother heard this, she became deeply enraged and grabbed him, needing to be restrained by their servants. Instead, it was decided that Yoriichi would be sent to live in the temples when he turned ten, adopting a life of priesthood. Their upbringing were polar opposites; everything from their rooms, clothes, education, and food were segregated from each other. Yoriichi was also secluded in a small room of their house by himself.
Michikatsu believed Yoriichi's poor treatment was why he constantly held onto their mother at all times, and he subsequently saw his twin as pitiful, nothing else. Despite this, behind their father's back, he gave his brother a flute he had made, knowing he would notice being given any of his own belongings. However, Yoriichi never once smiled, not doing so even as an infant; furthermore, he did not speak until he was seven and was thought to be deaf. The moment he realized Yoriichi could speak was when Michikatsu was practicing his swordsmanship, while Yoriichi stood silently in the shade. Seeing him alone was an eerie feeling when he suddenly heard his voice; he asked Michikatsu if he dreamt of being the greatest samurai in the land.
Michikatsu unnerved by Yoriichi smiling for the first time.
He was stunned as he never imagined he could speak, yet he spoke to him with such clarity, he dropped his wooden sword in shock. As Yoriichi proclaimed he would be the second greatest in deference of him, Michikatsu noted that Yoriichi would soon turn ten and become a monk. Whether he realized it or not, Yoriichi then smiled at his brother, which unnerved him. He believed someone who always clung to their mother would never give their life as a samurai. Regardless, the next time he trained, Yoriichi stood closer in the hope of receiving some instructions, upon which one of his trainers gave him a bamboo sword to humor him. After instructing him to hold it and take a proper stance, the trainer took his own stance.
In an instant, Yoriichi lands three strikes on the trainer.
Yoriichi then suddenly lunged forth and struck the trainer with three quick blows, before a fourth knocks the man down to the ground. Michikatsu was astonished as he never once was able to land a blow, yet Yoriichi had landed four in an instant; a seven year old child causing a grown man to develop fist-sized welts on his neck, chest, stomach, and foot. After that, Yoriichi decided he no longer wanted to become a samurai as he was uncomfortable at the thought of striking others. Michikatsu pressed him for the secret of his strength, and eventually, Yoriichi said that before taking a strike, he observed his opponent's skeletal alignment, muscular contractions, and blood flow.
At first, Michikatsu did not understand his answer, and it wasn't until later on when he realized Yoriichi could see into the inside of living things. The mark he bore gave him extraordinary vision as well as matching physical might. The brother he had looked down on for so long suddenly surpassed him in every way, yet Yoriichi had stated he would rather play suguroku and fly kites with him than talk about swordsmanship. Michikatsu himself sought mastery of the sword, doing so with relentless training under the belief that he could become strong by putting all his effort into it. Yet compared to Yoriichi, he was at a turtle's pace. He was given the gifts, but Yoriichi did not pursue swordsmanship at all. Irrespective of his skill, he saw it as less worthy of his time than playing games.
Michikatsu became the unfavored son, kept in Yoriichi's room.
Soon after, Michikatsu was then confined to Yoriichi's room as his trainer informed his father. Yoriichi was going to be the successor to his father while he would become a monk, his dream of being a samurai shattered. One night, Yoriichi came to his room in the early morning to inform him of their mother's death, which shocked Michikatsu. Before he could speak, Yoriichi apologized for the few details, asking he instead speak to their retainer for the details, as he was to depart for the temple soon. Surprised by this, he watches as Yoriichi reveals the flute he gave him; he thinks about the flute as if it were him and he will cherish it, never losing heart no matter how far apart they were.
Michikatsu grows jealous of Yoriichi.
Michikatsu became disgusted by this; Yoriichi treasured a crude gift and smiled about it; unable to understand why he was so happy about it, he couldn't reply back. Yoriichi then bowed his head and departed their household, carrying only a bag with him. Some time after, Michikatsu began to read his mother's diary; Yoriichi had realized his role as the successor and sought to leave before it could happen. It also seemed as if Yoriichi had known about their mother's illness as she had been suffering from the left of her body for years before her death.
It is then that he realized whenever Yoriichi clung to their mother, he doing so to support her left side, not because he was feeble or weak like he thought. The realization causes Michikatsu to be struck with jealousy, tearing his mother's diary as he curses his twin brother.
As Michikatsu begs Yoriichi to die and wishes he was never born, believing his existence was in defiance of nature, he listens to the fate of his brother. His father had sent an envoy to the temple and retrieve him, though he was not there. Yoriichi disappeared seemingly without a trace; whether it was a landslide, a bear, or being kidnapped, his wish had come true. For the next ten years, he lived peacefully; Michikatsu eventually got married and had children, but he recalls it was as if time had slowed to a crawl.
Yoriichi saves Michikatsu from a demon.
One fateful day, his camp was attacked by a demon, leaving his fellow samurai dead and him as the sole survivor. As the passage of time began to accelerate once again, he had an unexpected encounter. Yoriichi appeared and instantly struck down the demon; he was different to the person he was as a child and had completely mastered the sword, easily defeating inhuman opponents. Seeing Yoriichi again destroyed the serenity of his life, and as his stomach boiled with jealous hatred, he watched his twin kneel before and apologize for his lateness allowing his subordinates to be killed.
Now seeing Yoriichi was a seemingly faultless individual, Michikatsu decided to take his skills for his own no matter the costs. He abandoned his family and took the path of a Demon Slayer. Duriing this time, Yoriichi sought to teach his peers about swordsmanship and breathing techniques, but when none of them could match him, he altered the styles to suit them personally. This gave rise to the various Breathing Styles, and subsequently, as the Demon Slayers' power rose, so did the number of people who gained the mark like Yoriichi.
The Sengoku era Hashira discuss the deaths caused by the mark.
Eventually, Michikatsu attained a mark as well that was similar to his twin's, but in the end, he could not use Sun Breathing. Instead, he used a derivative that eventually came to be known as Moon Breathing. He had thought he could match Yoriichi's power by training, and as he languished in frustration, those who gained the mark began to die in droves. They soon discovered the mark merely exchanged a user's lifespan for the given power, and as such, the Golden Era of Demon Slayers would end; Michikatsu was subsequently left with no future or the neccessary training to surpass Yoriichi.
It was then that he encountered Muzan Kibutsuji; the Demon King tempted him by explaining he could live forever, and by doing so, he could master his Breathing Style and Muzan would gain a demonic swordsman from it. Given the choice, Michikatsu realized the path he truly sought had been laid before and he could be free of all his fetters. Yet, when Yoriichi encountered Michikatsu again 60 years later, it was a reminder that not all his shackles were gone. His twin who transcended the laws of nature had appeared before him and died, thereby defeating him once more and robbing him of victory forever.
An angered Kokushibo slashes Yoriichi's body in half.
No one, not even Muzan, could defeat, and as he demands to know why he had to always make him feel miserable, Kokushibo slashes Yoriichi's body in half. To his shock, he sees the flute he gave him when they were children and recalls his words. "I think of this flute you gave me... as you." Kokushibo attempts to force his hatred on him as he tears up at the sight of it. "Just seeing your face makes me sick. Just hearing your voice makes me so angry my head hurts."
Kokushibo laments that even after hundreds of years passing, the face he had wanted to forget the most appeared the vivid; he had long forgotten the faces of his parents, his wife, and children, yet his continued to stay clear. Yoriichi was the sun, and around him, humanity would have no path but to yearn and reach out for it as they writhed in agony until they faded. As the last portions of Kokushibo's body begin to fade, Upper One laments that he could never hold onto anything at all. Having abandoned his home, his wife and children, his humanity, and even after striking down his descendant and forgoing becoming a samurai, it was still never enough.
The death of Upper Rank One.
He recalls Yoriichi once stating that those who master their paths would all reach the same place, yet he did not and he couldn't see the world he saw. Even after Yoriichi's death, when he and Muzan killed every Demon Slayer who knew Sun Breathing and its forms, the style continues to live. Finally, as Kokushibo fades into nothing, leaving behind the flute he once gave to Yoriichi and has now kept with him for 400 years, he questions the entirety of his existence.
"Why could I not leave anything behind? Why could I not become someone? Why are we so different? Why in the world was I ever born? Tell me... Yoriichi."
As Kokushibo disintegrates entirely and is dragged down to Hell against his will, Sanemi continues to blindly attack the spot where he last remained. Gyomei orders him to relent as the demon has stop regenerating, but resorts to grabbing the Wind Hashira by force to make him stop. As he explains they have finally defeated Upper Rank One and the battle has finished, Sanemi collapses in his hold, surprising him to see he was still moving despite being unconscious. After laying him to rest on the ground, he thinks of Muichiro and Genya.
Nearby, Genya weakly calls out to him, asking for Sanemi and Muichiro's condition. Gyomei reassures the Demon Slayer that he and Sanemi are alright; Genya then points his attention to Muichiro, asking him to tend to the Mist Hashira as he will be alright. Surprised to see Genya still alive despite his wounds, he reasons this is due to him eating demons; regardless, Genya's regeneration is wearing off with his blood loss. Believing that placing marechi blood beside him would be beneficial, Gyomei moves the unconscious Sanemi to be with Genya before he tends to Muichiro; Genya is relieved to see his older brother is still alive.
Gyomei, seeing Muichiro has already succumbed to his wounds, removes his haori to cover the lower half of his body. Passionately thanking the Mist Hashira for his efforts to help them win, the Stone Hashira gives his gratitude and respect. For someone so young, he accomplished his goal magnificently, and Gyomei tearfully promises him they will not fail to defeat Muzan, before closing his eyes and asking him to finally rest.
Yuichiro becomes upset to see Muichiro, realizing he too is dead.
Muichiro awakens in the afterlife and sees his twin brother Yuichiro standing before him, but Yuichiro becomes angry and tearfully demands he return to the living world. Muichiro cries as he asks for why he wouldn't praise him for his efforts. Yuichiro instead asks why he would give his life at fourteen years old, believing he should have ran away. When Muichiro claims he couldn't simply abandon his comrades, Yuichiro replies he still shouldn't have died now, believing his death would be for nothing and giving him no reason to be born. Muichiro reminds his twin he died a sorrier death at just eleven years of age, before answering his question. "As for the reason I was born... I know that full well. I... was born to be happy."
Yuichiro and Muichiro embrace, reunited once again.
He confronts Yuichiro by asking if he was ever happy in his life, revealing he was happy to live with his family. When he was alone, he suffered many tragedies, yet he made new friends and was able to smile again as his mind becomes flooded by his happy moments. Asking to know if he had done enough, to refuse running away and risk his life for the sake of his comrades, Muichiro wipes away his tears as he demands Yuichiro to never speak to him harshly again, regardless of what anyone else says. Holding his brother by the shoulders, Yuichiro gently apologizes, acknowledging that he understands his reasoning; he simply did not want to see him dead, as he pulls his twin into an embrace.
As Sanemi opens his eyes, he suddenly screams in horror, causing Gyomei to turn back to see what is happening. Genya begins to disintegrate into ash as Sanemi questions why it is happening; Genya weakly calls out to him and Sanemi pleads with his brother not to worry as he attempts to help him. He apologizes to Sanemi for the time he condemned him during their childhood, believing he always was a trouble to him. Sanemi rejects this and claims he never once was troubled by Genya's actions, pleading that he cannot die before him.
Sanemi grieving Genya's death.
Genya thanks his brother for his protection but Sanemi retorts that he did not; to this, Genya remarks of wanting to protect Sanemi the way he has done to him. They feel the same way being brothers, and after seeing how much he has suffered, Genya only wants to see Sanemi happy and alive. "Because... my big brother... is... the nicest person... in... this world." As the Hashira pleads with the gods to spare his younger brother's life, Genya thanks his older brother for the last time before disintegrating completely.
Holding his clothes, Sanemi begins mourning the death of his brother. Gyomei calmly approaches him and implores the Wind Hashira to soldier on and raise his head, solemnly reminding him that the battle is not over until Muzan is defeated.
Continuing through the Infinity Castle, Tanjiro and Giyu hear the news of Muichiro and Genya's deaths. Tanjiro cries as he remarks that everyone now seems to be dying, yet he pushes aside the pain to focus on the mission. He wills himself to keep going until the end no matter what; as everyone before him, he must go onwards without hesitation. However, he believes himself to be unready to be a successor; after reading Senjuro's letter, he knows that Hinokami Kagura has 13 forms, yet he only knows 12. Regardless, he must defeat Muzan for everyone's sake.
Kiriya realizes they have run out of time; the Demon Slayers will not be able to reach Muzan to save Tamayo and he will return. He then receives news that the first squad of Demon Slayers has arrived at his location, with a second squad on the way. The Oyakata warns them not to engage Muzan and wait for the Hashira to arrive, but the squad is already attempting to cut the cocoon down. This fails, and they try to cut the flesh attached to the walls first. A Demon Slayer then receives Kiriya's order to stand down, but another declares they cannot stand by and do nothing, and instead they must do anything to stop him before the Hashira arrive.
Muzan annihilates the first squad of Demon Slayers.
Without warning, the cocoon splits and a transformed Muzan leaps into the air, descending to cut down the leading Demon Slayer before he can even react. In an instant, Muzan kills the Demon Slayers in a bloody flurry of slashes as he leaps instantly between them, the fighters completely unable to stand up to the demon. Kiriya frantically orders them to wait for the Hashira or they will only act as Muzan's food, but the message is received too late as Muzan proclaims they are now all dead. He sees the Kasugai crow acting as Kiriya's mouthpiece and decapitates it.
Muzan remarks that after living for a thousand years, one can lose their sense of taste; being hungry before the attack has allowed him to enjoy the flesh of the Demon Slayers. He mockingly praises Kagaya for providing him with sustenance, and though he does not know his successor to the position of Oyakata, he is greatly impressed by them. He adds that if they were to kneel before him, he would be willing to make them into a demon as his subordinates are all dead. Kiriya then orders the second squadron to fall back and avoid Muzan; if he eats them as well, he will recover his strength.
Muzan kills Tamayo.
Muzan turns his attention to Tamayo in his hand, now left as a crumbling severed head. As he mocks her attempt to poison him with her transformative drug as a failure, Tamayo boldly claims he will go to hell today. The Demon King retorts her threat as countless humans have told him those exact words throughout his existence, and it still has yet to come true. With tears welling in her eyes, Tamayo finally pleads with Muzan to give back her husband and children. In response, Muzan coldly remarks, "Die and join those relatives you killed", before crushing the demon's head and absorbing her remains.
Muzan massacres the second squad of Demon Slayers.
Elsewhere in the castle, Yushiro is suddenly racked with pain and collapses on the floor; as Takeuchi sees him and asks if he is alright, he can only claw at the floor in agony as he realizes Tamayo has been killed. Muzan soon locates the second squad of Demon Slayers and kills them, meeting no resistance as he uses his potent abilities to annihilate the troops entirely. Kiriya demands they retreat and asks if Giyu is yet to arrive there. Being informed the Water Hashira is in the other direction, Kiriya panics at the thought of Muzan massacring the Demon Slayers, leaving Tamayo's sacrifice in vain as he recovers his strength.
Deriding his fallen Upper Ranks as useless, Muzan declares that he alone will kill all of the Demon Slayers tonight.
Kuina slaps her brother to snap him from his catatonic state.
Kiriya enters a state of shock at the realization that his mistake has resulted in much of the Demon Slayers being slaughtered. He freezes in his indecision, and he cannot hear Kuina calling to him as he begins to think that the efforts made to kill Muzan over the centuries will be futile because of him. With no options, Kuina forcefully slaps her brother across the face, much to Kanata's shock; she tells him to remain strong and to give a new order as the battle is not done.
Recalling that his father, grandfather, and the past Oyakatas have also experienced the same immense pressure as him, Kiriya pushes aside his doubts. He orders the Kasugai crows to spread out and close in on Muzan, and to gather the Hashira and remaining Demon Slayers to one location. Before they continue, Kiriya thanks Kanata and Kuina for their help; Kuina acknowledges his recognition of their efforts.
Mitsuri and Obanai receive orders to regroup as Muzan has now returned, shocking the Love Hashira as she realizes they have been stalled the entire time. A similarly frustrated Obanai notes that whilst Muichiro and Genya gave their lives in the attempt to defeat Upper One, he has done nothing in comparison. He sees that while Nakime’s Blood Demon Art is not particularly deadly, she is instead prolonging the battle and preventing them from killing her while doing so. Having stalled two Hashira into doing nothing, Nakime forces Obanai to think of a new plan to allow them to rejoin. Mitsuri questions how she and Obanai can simply leave the Biwa Demon mid-battle, just as someone grabs her by the haori.
Tanjiro and Giyu face a transformed Muzan.
Nakime begins to strum her biwa, the notes echoing within the Infinity Castle as she manipulates the positions of Tanjiro, Giyu, and Muzan into one area. Coming face to face with the Demon King, Tanjiro’s breathing becomes erratic as his mind is flooded by the memories of his dead family, Nezuko, and the deceased Hashira he grew so close to. He trembles with rage as he holds his katana, forcing Giyu to order him to calm down.
Unexpectedly, Muzan remarks about their persistence; he is sick of them and his patience is wearing thin, wondering why they continue to talk about avenging those they loved and asking if just being alive is not enough for them. This enrages Tanjiro and Giyu, but Muzan continues by asking why they care about the loved ones he has killed, believing they should consider themselves lucky and continue with living on.
When Tanjiro questions how Muzan can say something with such indifference, Muzan insists they act as if those loved ones were simply killed by a natural disaster. Whether it is rain, wind, volcanoes, or an earthquake, people do not seek revenge against them, and because the dead cannot return, they should let go of their grudges and continue to live a quiet life. Most people do, and to this end, Muzan believes the Demon Slayers to be abnormal for their refusal to accept their deaths he has caused. “And I’m tired of dealing with you. I just want things to end.”
Tanjiro, having listened to the revelation of Muzan’s monstrous disregard to the lives of humanity, simply mutters one sentence: “Muzan… we… cannot allow you to exist anymore.”
As he faces Muzan head-on, Tanjiro internalizes that he has never felt such coldness towards a living being. His stomach churns with hatred, something he has never experienced before, and the extent of his hatred is pointed directly at the Demon King. Even if they were to behead him, Muzan will not die, and they must find a way to drag him towards sunlight. Regarding the orders they received, he and Giyu must stall Muzan until the other Demon Slayers can arrive and plan a way to extend the battle until the dawn’s arrival; they must ascertain and convey any advantageous knowledge about Muzan to the others. Finally, they must survive long enough to do so as it is only until that point when the true battle starts.
Muzan attacks with his bladed arms and immense speed.
Weaponizing his arms with flesh blades and hooks, Muzan ferociously attacks the Water Hashira and Demon Slayer; he takes a moment to admire his new prowess as he destroys the area around them. Giyu is barely able to block his attack with Water Breathing, Eleventh Form: Dead Calm; he remarks that his arms are as sharp as blades, he can extend them, and he possesses immense speed. Seeing that he cannot dodge Muzan's attacks on instinct alone, Tanjiro decides he must get in close by going past his attacks.
He lunges at the demon and successfully dodges his attack, enabling him to get near; Muzan suddenly throws him off-balance and cuts Tanjiro’s right eye whilst he is downed. As he questions how he was struck, Tanjiro is nearly attacked again but is narrowly saved by Giyu, who explains that they have no need to attack him directly since he is more powerful than an Upper Rank. But with nothing to shield them and no way out of the battle, he also notes the helplessness of their situation.
Tanjiro and Giyu are overwhelmed by Muzan's attacks.
Muzan overhears them and notes that sunlight cannot reach inside the castle, wondering how three Hashira can accomplish this feat. When Tanjiro and Giyu grow shocked by his statement about three Hashira, Muzan reveals that Nakime has already killed Obanai and Mitsuri; sharing his vision with his subordinate, he can see the dead bodies of the Serpent and Love Hashira. The Demon King continues his onslaught and attacks between the two Demon Slayers to separate them.
Tanjiro forces himself to attack as to not burden Giyu; while he dodges the demon’s attacks, he believes that even with one eye, he can smell out the attacks and see into the Transparent World. However, Muzan is attacking too quickly and he cannot maintain his breathing whilst dodging them, leading Tanjiro to get hit by a wall behind him when he cannot see his surroundings. Before Muzan’s arm can hit Tanjiro, Mitsuri bursts through the ceiling behind the demon, shocking him and Giyu.
Obanai orders Tanjiro to fall back.
Using Love Breathing, Sixth Form: Cat-Legged Winds of Love, she attacks Muzan but becomes stunned to see she has not harmed the demon at all. Obanai appears beside Tanjiro and orders him to stay back, seeing he is only an encumbrance in battle. Tanjiro becomes thankful to see him and Mitsuri alive, though Obanai then asks if he could worry about himself instead of others. As Muzan looks on at his unexpected opponents, he questions how they are alive and yells at Nakime about what she is doing.
Yushiro hijacks Nakime's vision, allowing him to control the Infinity Castle himself.
Yushiro, revealing himself to be the one responsible, answers Muzan's question by explaining that he now control her vision. He accuses the demon of committing the gravest sins of the world and demands he kneel in penance for his murder of Tamayo. As the entirety of the Infinity Castle begins to warp and shake violently, Yushiro declares his intentions to force Muzan out into the open.
Mitsuri becomes hesitant to attack Muzan.
Repeating biwa strums begin echoing within the Infinity Castle, changing the landscape of the battlefield rapidly. Mitsuri pushes herself to continue fighting despite the forces of the castle pummelling her, but upon seeing the angered Muzan, she grows frightened, believing him to be scarier than any demon she has faced and wishing Gyomei would arrive soon. She also remarks about Yushiro's perpetual scowl and his plan to pretend that the Hashira were dead becoming futile when Giyu, Obanai, and Tanjiro are all in danger.
Previously, when Yushiro grabbed her, he explained that whilst being a demon, he is on their side. He goes on to inform Mitsuri of his plan to handle Nakime whilst her objective was to run around the demon as a decoy Distracting her will allow him sneak behind and hijack the Biwa Demon's vision, where he can remove Muzan's influence and control her mind, leaving Mitsuri astonished by his abilities. Yushiro plans to trick Muzan into believing the Hashira and other Demon Slayers are dead, giving them time to gather their forces and attack him at once.
Mitsuri nearly slips off a moving column as she surmises that the situation is now a clash of wills between Muzan and Yushiro; though they must attack Muzan to help Yushiro, she believes she could die before it happens as the Infinity Castle becomes erratic and unpredictable. Tanjiro nearly falls through an open door as he attempts to stay close to Muzan and avoid getting separated. Realizing he cannot see Nakime's attacker, Muzan surmises them to be Yushiro and decides to kill him.
Yushiro battles Muzan over control of the Infinity Castle.
As Yushiro attempts to control the Infinity Castle using Nakime, the skin in his hand begin to decay and bleed as Muzan attempts to wrestle control of her; he sees the demon is even attempting to absorb his own cells. As the two clash, Takeuchi sees Yushiro struggling greatling and offers himself to be eaten in order to give him strength, only to be refused by the angered demon. Muzan is then attacked by Giyu and Obanai, using Water Breathing, Fourth Form: Striking Tide and Serpent Breathing, First Form: Winding Serpent Slash to circle around the demon and distract him.
Muzan kills Nakime to stop Yushiro.
Muzan subsequently loses concentration on Nakime, allowing Yushiro to push back his influence and manipulates the castle; he causes the demon to fall through the floor, but as he plummets, Muzan resorts to remotely killing Upper Rank Four. He enacts his curse and destroys Nakime's head; Yushiro realizes the Infinity Castle will collapse with her death and scrambles to control her dying cells and transport everyone outside. As Tanjiro and Obanai lose balance on the column they stand on, he sees destroyed blade and mangled bodies of the Demon Slayers, believing they must have died regretful.
With Yushiro occupied with controlling the castle, Muzan continues his attack against the Demon Slayers, destroying the floor around Mitsuri and Obanai to separate them and cutting Tanjiro in the arm. The castle begins to groan and creak; Obanai remarks that only Muzan will survive if everyone is not outside, while Mitsuri sees the building they stand on is rising. She is nearly struck by Muzan but is saved by Obanai pushing her and a timely throw from Tanjiro, using a fallen Demon Slayer's katana to impale his head. As Muzan curses Tanjiro, the building breaks through the ceiling of the Infinity Castle, causing everyone to be shoved outside into the open.
