As Tanjiro embarks on his mission as an officiated Demon Slayer, he remembers information provided to him by Sakonji. Nichirin Swords change color according to their users, but so little is known about swordsmen with black blades, it is believed they don't progress far. His uniform is made of a special breathable fabric that is waterproof and fire-resistant, as well as strong enough to repel the claws and teeth of a weak demon. Before leaving, he is given a new box by Sakonji for carrying Nezuko during the day, made with lighter stronger wood and lacquer for durability. He also mentions his idea that perhaps Nezuko sleeps to gain strength as an alternative to eating humans.
Tanjiro questions Kazumi about Satoko's disappearance.
As he walks through the town assigned as his mission, he notices a dishevelled man in the crowd. The man, Kazumi, is pitied by the folk as he was with the latest victim, Satoko, when she disappeared. Tanjiro questions him and Kazumi takes the Demon Slayer to where she vanished. Though he believes the boy will dissuade him, Tanjiro fully supports his idea that she disappeared and kneels to the ground, detecting the faint scent of a demon. Watching him investigate, Kazumi remembers when he had told Satoko's parents of what had happened, and her father had beaten him for blaming her disappearance as her simply vanishing.
As night approaches, a girl inside her house prepares to go to sleep. Lying in her futon, she sadly wonders on the whereabouts of the missing girls and hopes they are alright. Suddenly, her bedroom floor transforms into a dark puddle and demonic arms grab her from beneath; the girl is unable to scream and is dragged into the dark murk.
Tanjiro suddenly runs away, causing Kazumi to follow him as he explains that the scent is now stronger and that a demon is nearby by. He leaps up onto the rooftops to get a better view of the town and a stunned Kazumi realizes that the rumors of demons and the Demon Slayers are true. Tanjiro gets down and, detecting where the scent is strongest, stabs his blade into the ground, causing murky water to spurt out. He sees something in the water and grabs the girl, pulling her away from the demon.
Tanjiro meets the Swamp Demon.
From the puddle emerges a horned demon, causing Tanjiro to realize that it possesses a Blood Demon Art, remembering Sakonji's advice that they are supernatural abilities belonging to certain demons. He questions the demon about the missing girls but it instead grinds its teeth in anger and disappears. Entrusting the girl to Kazumi, he senses the scent approaching but is shocked to see three demons. Thinking quickly, he uses Water Breathing, Eighth Form: Waterfall Basin, hitting all three targets at once.
Before preparing for his first mission, Sakonji informs Tanjiro that only one demon has blood that is able to transform someone into a demon. It was the first demon to ever exist, doing so over a thousand years ago. It was the demon that killed his family and perhaps the only one who knows how to reverse a transformation. The demon's name is Muzan Kibutsuji.
Despite his attempt to strike all three demons at once, Tanjiro's attacks fails to hit its weak spots. He notes that they all have the same scent and surmises that they are clones of the same demon. Despite the trouble of protecting two people from three demons, he remembers knowing to ask them about information regarding Muzan Kibutsuji.
The Swamp Demon angered at Tanjiro.
When one clone tries to grab Kazumi, Tanjiro flips back and uses Water Breathing, Second Form: Water Wheel. He fails again to cut deeper than he had hoped and the demon escapes him. Suddenly, the clone angrily demands he stop interfering with his hunt, claiming that since the girl is now 16, she will taste worse. Another clone emerges and calms the first, claiming that he has already devoured much victims and that he is satisfied. Kazumi demands the demon let Satoko go when the last clone appears behind him.
He opens his robe to reveal a large collection of hairpins, telling him that if hers is in the bunch, she was already devoured. Kazumi, upon seeing Satoko's ribbon among them, begins to cry, while Tanjiro grows enraged at the number of lost lives, remembering the pain of losing his family and Nezuko's transformation. A clone then tries to attack Tanjiro but he dodges away from the blow and cuts off its arm, though he fails again to hit its neck.
Suddenly, another clone appears out of the wall, forcing Tanjiro to duck away and avoid it. When another appears behind him, Tanjiro tries to use his Water Breathing but is unable to react in time. As the demon gets close, it is kicked in the head by Nezuko emerging from her box. As Kazumi and the Swamp Demon watch with surprise, the demon questions why one of his kind is accompanying a swordsman.
Nezuko envisioning Takeo and Hanako.
Nezuko walks to Kazumi and the girl and envisions her siblings Takeo and Hanako in them. As Tanjiro see his sister's behavior, he remembers that Sakonji had informed him about something regarding Nezuko. As she slept, he tried to hypnotize her with a message: "All humans are your family. Protect humanity. Demons are your enemy. Never forgive demons for the harm they do".  Tanjiro watches as Nezuko prepares to battle the Swamp Demon, an angered expression written on her face.
Nezuko raises her leg and attempts to deliver an axe kick to the demon's clone, but it hides back into its swamp before she makes contact. Tanjiro warns her away from chasing after it and calls her to come back; as she does, another clone tries to grab her but she leaps over it and stands beside her brother. Remembering Sakonji's words that as a demon, Nezuko is no longer weak, Tanjiro wonders if he can leave Nezuko to protect Kazumi and the girl.
Tanjiro inside the demon's swamp.
Suddenly, the swamp puddle appears beneath him and he begins to sink in, but not before telling Nezuko to protect the two bystanders. Inside the murky lair, he sees a large number of clothes and belongings once owned by the demon's victims, calling his actions unforgivable. Two clones then appear and mock him for deciding to enter their domain, as there is almost no air and the heaviness of the swamp will slow him movement. Nonetheless, Tanjiro warns them not to doubt him, as the training he received on Mount Sagiri had made him accustomed to even thinner air than the swamp.
He then sees an opportunity to use a form that will best utilize his conditions underwater. The clones then swim around him at great speeds and at sharp angles, momentarily confusing him. However, he remains focused and knows he can kill them up close. He aligns his sword for a form made with unsteady footwork and able to generate a strong spin. As the clones get close, Tanjiro detects the Opening Thread and uses Water Breathing, Sixth Form: Whirlpool and slashes the two demons' necks at once with a powerful cutting vortex, killing them. Afterwards, he begins to feel the strain of the lack of air and swims to the surface to Nezuko.
Nezuko battles the last clone.
Above ground, Nezuko battles the last clone and lands a strong punch onto its stomach. It notes her strength without possessing any strange abilities and believes that she must have received much blood from Tanjiro. Nezuko is preventing him from entering his swamp, but the clone notes that her attacks are simple and easy to get accustomed to, as well as the futility of her attacks due to his healing. The clone succeeds in cutting Nezuko's face with his hand and dazes her. Seeing her standing still, he tries to kill her but has his right arm suddenly sliced off.
Tanjiro appears between them and cuts off its other limb. Falling to the ground and confronted by the Demon Slayer, the clone realizes that his other two selves have already been killed. Tanjiro admonishes them for their number of victims and the demon only growls at him that when women age, they get ugly and taste bad. When it claims the victims should be thankful they were devoured, Tanjiro angrily slashes its mouth to prevent it from talking further. Pointing his blade at the demon, he demands it tell him everything he knows about Muzan Kibutsuji. To his surprise, the demon suddenly becomes frightened.
Muzan threatens the Swamp Demon.
The demon remembers when Muzan Kibutsuji had threatened him severely. Grabbed by the neck and lifted up, he hears Muzan's threats to never say his name to anyone, as he will immediately know and that he will always be watching him.
Despite being threatened with death, the terrified demon denies Tanjiro's question about Muzan and shakes his head, incessantly rambling that he cannot say anything. Watching the demon tremble uncontrollably, he notes the strong scent of fear in him. Growing back his arms instantly, the demon yells out that he cannot say anything and tries to attack Tanjiro, forcing him to cut through his neck, killing the demon once and for all. Once more, Tanjiro is dismayed that he has not gotten any information.
Tanjiro returns to find a sleeping Nezuko and apologizes to her once again for failing to gather intel on how to revert her back into a human. He sees Kazumi on the floor with a distraught look on his face and checks to see if he is alright. Kazumi rhetorically asks him if he looks alright after having lost the love of his life, to which Tanjiro advises him to keep living no matter how many times he might lose something precious to him. Angered by his dismissive demeanor, Kazumi belittles Tanjiro, asking what he would know about losing something precious being just a child.
Tanjiro smiles at Kazumi.
Tanjiro gives him a gentle smile and offers Kazumi the hair bow that belonged to Satoko, to give him something to remember her by. Realizing his insensitive mistake, Kazumi apologizes to Tanjiro as he leaves the village, sadly looking at his callused hand and knowing it was only possible through relentless training. As he makes his exit from the village, Tanjiro makes the realization that he is not the only one to suffer loss from demons, blaming Muzan for all the pain they have caused. His Kasugai Crow then lands on his shoulder and immediately informs him to investigate a rumor regarding a hidden demon in Asakusa, dismaying Tanjiro that he already has a new mission immediately after his last.
Two days after leaving the village, Tanjiro and Nezuko arrive in the bustling city of Asakusa. Being raised in the mountains the majority of his life, he are immediately overwhelmed by the enormous crowds, large buildings, and stunning lights. They take a break from the crowds and arrive at a noodle cart at the city's edge where Nezuko sleeps and Tanjiro grabs a bite to eat. However as he awaits for his meal, he is caught off guard by an unexpected familiar scent nearby.
Tanjiro meets Muzan Kibutsuji in Asakusa.
He takes off following the trail and discovers Muzan Kibutsuji hidden within the crowds of people. He reaches for his katana and is about to engage Muzan before he realizes that he is carrying a young child in his arms. Muzan is joined shortly after by his wife. He stands before him horrified and confused as to why the young girl and her mother are with him. The young woman then goes on to ask Muzan if he has any sort of affiliation with Tanjiro, to which he denies.
While the woman and the young child look at Tanjiro, Muzan reaches behind and quickly scratches the neck of a pedestrian, turning him into a demon. The only one to witness this, Tanjiro reaches forward to try and subdue the newly transformed demon before he attacks anyone, but fails as the man begins attacking his wife.
