Despite Zenitsu's initial anger at learning he had been carrying a girl, Tanjiro becomes confused to now see him grovelling before him, seemingly to get closer to Nezuko. He is additionally troubled by Inosuke randomly headbutting him.
Inosuke confused at Hisa's good luck ritual.
After their injuries have healed. the Demon Slayers are given an urgent directive to travel to Mount Natagumo as quickly as possible. Just as they are about to set off, they thank Hisa for her kindness and she offers to strike sparks for good luck on their journey. Confused by her intentions, Inosuke loudly questions her and calls her a hag, causing Zenitsu and Tanjiro to frantically intervene while questioning his intelligence. As they run off, Inosuke overhears the women wish them a good fortune and prideful lives, causing him to gaze at her in confusion.
He calls out to the boys running in front of him and asks for the meaning behind her words. While Zenitsu is shocked at Inosuke's cluelessness, Tanjiro gives an explanation and states she is praying for their safety. Despite this, Inosuke then begins to question his explanation; annoyed, Tanjiro decides to speed up and avoid talking.
By the time they've arrived at Mount Natagumo, night time has fallen. They prepare to investigate the mountain, but are held back when Zenitsu becomes frightened and is reluctant to climb the mountain. A sudden scent emerges, and Tanjiro discovers an injured Demon Slayer begging for help down the path. Tanjiro and Inosuke run towards him but he suddenly lifted into the air, and pulled back into the mountain screaming, "I was still connected!". Tanjiro proclaims he's going to investigate the mountain but Inosuke declares he will lead as Tanjiro "trembles in fear and follows behind."
While climbing the mountain, the two notice an unusual amount of spiderwebs. Tanjiro talks to Inosuke and thanks him for bravely accompanying him to investigate, saying how the twisted scent of the mountain had scared him but when Inosuke agreed to go, he was able to overcome his fear. Inosuke ponders on what he means, and is reminded of the kind actions of the old lady.
The female demon appears.
Tanjiro notices someone hidden in the woods and approach him, where Tanjiro introduce himself as a Mizunoto and has arrived as backup. The boy hiding in the brush angrily voices his distaste, hoping for a Hashira instead, to which Inosuke cuts off by punching him in the face. He angrily yells at the unknown swordsman and demands a summary of what has occurred on the mountain. He tells the two that a Kasugai crow had brought an order to investigate the mountain and ten Corps members had come as group. However. not long after arriving, they had began to each other without warning. He turns his head as a dead Demon Slayer then appears before the boys, revealing that he is being controlled like a puppet by a mysterious female demon.
Shinobu and Giyu listening to Kagaya's orders.
At an unknown location, the crow of one of the Demon Slayer has haggardly arrived to give word of what had occurred on the mountain. After commending the crow for returning home, a man deducts that it has to be the work of one of the Twelve Kizuki and decides to dispatch the Hashira to assist. Behind him are Giyu Tomioka and Shinobu, who acknowledge his wishes. Shinobu curiously wonders if demons and humans could ever get along, only for Giyu to state that as long as demons eat them, peace is impossible.
While sitting on the footpath to the mountain, Zenitsu wonders if Tanjiro and Inosuke hate him, believing that if they were his friends, they would encourage him to join them and he would travelled along. Instead, they entered Mount Natagumo without hesitating or looking back at him. He is then joined by his sparrow.
Trying to speak to him, the little bird tries to encourage him, saying that sulking does nothing good and asking him to help his friends. However, Zenitsu does not understand his message, instead envying the bird for not being able to understand humanity. Aggravated, the sparrow begins biting Zenitsu's hand, who starts scolding him for not acting cute and citing Nezuko as an example. He then realizes that Nezuko is with Tanjiro, now inside Mount Natagumo's forests, and frantically runs into the woods in search of her.
Meanwhile, within the mountain, Inosuke and Tanjiro have engaged in combat with their fellow Demon Slayers. Inosuke belittles their intelligence for attacking them until Tanjiro realizes from their strange movements that they are being controlled by an unseen force. Inosuke announces that he is going to "cut them up" before Tanjiro yells at him to avoid doing so, saying that they shouldn't defile their comrades' corpses. Angered by his words, Inosuke faces Tanjiro and headbutts him saying that he doesn't like to be told what to do.
Tanjiro and Inosuke protect Murata.
In the midst of the chaos, Murata, the swordsman they discovered on the mountain, is suddenly attacked by two Demon Slayers. The two boys rush forward to protect him and Tanjiro discovers an unsettling sweet smell behind him. He slashes near the Demon Slayer's back and the body falls, having sliced nearly invisible threads. He yells his discovery to Inosuke and tells him to quickly free the controlled swordsman from the threads, doing so by leaping over them and cutting rapidly, freeing their bodies from control.
Tanjiro discovers small spiders threads trying to gain control of his arms.
Tanjiro tries to search for the demon responsible but is distracted by a foul odor. He discovers small spiders spinning threads trying to gain control of his arms. He frees himself and discovers that they are responsible for controlling the Corps members, watching as the Demon Slayer bodies they freed standing upright once again. Seeing that cutting the threads is pointless and further repulsed by the scent in the wind, Tanjiro tries to figure out a plan. Inosuke tries killing the spiders but they prove too numerous to be effective.
Inosuke locates a demon using Spatial Awareness.
In the middle of his instruction, a boy appears from above and warns that the Demon Slayers to not disturb his family. Tanjiro notices the young boy to be balancing on threads, before the boys makes the threat that "Mother" will kill them. Inosuke leaps up into the air and slashes at the boy but misses, cursing him as he falls back down. Tanjiro yells at Inosuke to not mind the boy and find the demon controlling the spiders. In response, Inosuke pierces his blades into the ground and crouches down to preform his Beast Breathing, Seventh Form: Spatial Awareness: it is revealed that due to Inosuke growing up in the mountains, he has developed an extremely fine sense of touch, which, when coupled with his Beast Breathing, enables him to sense something's presence through the air. He is able to locate the presence of a female demon in the distance.
Alone and standing atop his threads, the boy gazes up at the moon as he eerily chants that he will not allow anyone to cut bonds of his family, drawing a web in his hands.
Tanjiro grabbing Inosuke
Murata calls for Tanjiro and Inosuke to leave him, though Inosuke insults him for his earlier cowardice. Somewhat annoyed by his statement, Murata proclaims that he is still a member of the Demon Slayer Corps and believes he can handle the Demon Slayers, now knowing of their simple movements and knowledge about the spiders and threads. Thankful, Tanjiro grabs Inosuke and they venture deeper into the jungle, though the latter is angry for being unable to hit Murata for insulting him.
As they run, Tanjiro chides Inosuke for his behaviour, who only claims that Murata had insulted him, calling his partner "Monjiro". Suddenly, they encounter a female Demon Slayer who is entangled with threads, who cries out to summon someone of higher rank as she holds the bodies of her teammates.
Elsewhere in the forest, a female demon is seen giggling on a rock with excitement as the Demon Slayers get closer to her, since the threads in her closer proximity are thicker and stronger. Suddenly, a voice addresses her as "Mother"; she turns to see the pale boy, Rui, and becomes nervous. Rui asks if she can win; when she asks if he believes she is taking too long, the boy only warns her that if she doesn't hasten her efforts, he would tell "Father".
A controlled Ozaki swinging her katana at Tanjiro and Inosuke.
Frightened, Mother frantically reassures him that she can protect him. Having received his answer, Rui ominously tells her to hurry before leaving. With a newfound sense of urgency, Mother begins to control the Demon Slayers with more violent jerks. The female swordsman begins to quickly lunge and slash at the boys while her bones twist and crack in unnatural ways. Tanjiro dodges her attacks and sees two other Corps members: one of them pleading to be killed and put out of his misery due to the pain.
Without hesitation, Inosuke agrees and tries to attack them but is told to wait by Tanjiro. He begins to ponder on how to immobilize them without hurting them anymore then they already are. Tanjiro runs in the opposite direction as the female Demon Slayer gives chase, before he sprints and turns back quickly to grab and throw her into the air. The girl gets caught on a branch and remains tangled within the canopy of the tree.
Tanjiro restrains Ozaki.
Inosuke stays standing in disbelief and eagerly follows Tanjiro's lead; he grabs a nearby Corps member and successfully throws him into the tree where he stays tangled. He turns to face Tanjiro and tries to mock him by saying that is capable of doing anything that Tanjiro can do. In a comical response, Tanjiro apologizes to Inosuke for not watching what he was doing which angers him.
Seeing that her Demon Slayers are no longer able to move, Mother decides to use "that doll".
Tanjiro watches in horror as The Mother Spider Demon pulls on several threads at once and snap Ozaki's neck.
With one controlled Demon Slayer left to restrain, Inosuke moves in to finish the task, with Tanjiro asking that he be gentle. Suddenly, Mother pulls on several threads at once and snap the necks of her dolls, including the agonized man and the female Demon Slayer. Tanjiro is horrified and Inosuke becomes annoyed that all their efforts were futile in the end. Walking to the closest body of a comrade, Tanjiro silently releases his rage, which startles Inosuke greatly. He only tells his friend that they must continue and Inosuke quietly agrees.
Tanjiro and Inosuke encounter the "doll".
They travel quickly through the forest and approach the strong odor of a demon, however they begin to panic as they realize that it is a headless body being used as a puppet. Tanjiro attempts to formulate a plan to take down the puppet, however Inosuke charges forward and engages with the being. To his disadvantage, Inosuke sustains multiple slashes and unknowingly gets entangled by a spider's thread, panicking as the headless puppet prepares to pierce through him.
At that moment, Tanjiro quickly comes to Inosuke's defense and parries the puppet's attacks, he manages to push back the puppet and yells to Inosuke that they need to fight together in order to defeat it. In an angered protest, Inosuke calls him out saying "I won't let you embarrass me anymore!"
The puppet charges forward to attack, however the boys prepare their counterattack together, Tanjiro bends over to evade the attack and tells Inosuke to go over his back. He successfully slices both of the daggers from the puppet and leaps into the air off of Tanjiro's box, meanwhile Tanjiro uses the Water Breathing, Fourth Form: Striking Tide to demobilize the puppet by slashing its legs. As Inosuke descends from above, his jealousy at Tanjiro's skills and abilities builds up and he powerfully delivers the final blow to defeat the puppet demon.
Tanjiro is amazed by Inosuke's final cut but becomes stunned when Inosuke suddenly charges at him. Inosuke exclaims that "I can do anything you can do dummy!" and furiously throws him up into the air. Nearby in the forest, Mother sits defeated on her rock after her strongest doll was defeated. She upsettingly blames Rui for her defeat since he had threatened her to do well.
Tanjiro defeating the Mother Spider Demon.
As Tanjiro spots her from above and prepares to attack, Mother panics when trying to formulate a plan however she comes to realize that she will find freedom and peace in death. She holds out her arms and accepts her fate. Tanjiro notices the change in her demeanor and switches from using the Water Breathing, First Form: Water Surface Slash to Fifth Form: Blessed Rain After the Drought, giving the frightened demon a merciful death.
A second female demon watches Mother's abuse.
As she is beheaded, Mother notes that she feels as if she is being showered by a gentle rain. She experiences no pain whatsoever and she had never imagined her death to be so gentle. She then remembers when she had her eye injured by a hulking demon for seemingly no reason. Begging for mercy and unsure why he is angry, Rui coldly tells Mother it is her own fault for not realizing why.  Behind a tree, another demon watches the scene and laughs that "Dad's angry at Mom again!". As the giant demon grabs Mother, another female demon sees the abuse from high in the trees, watching with a cautious look.
Mother looks at Tanjiro's eyes and sees they bore only kindness and are practically transparent, not hiding anything by sympathy. She remarks that when she was human, someone must have looked at her eyes with the same kind expression, though she does not remember who and wonders where they may be now. As thanks for bringing her peace, Mother tells Tanjiro that the Twelve Kizuki are on the mountain.
Tanjiro becomes shocked and questions her final words. He realizes that the Twelve Kizuki contain high concentrations of Muzan Kibutsuji's blood and that he would need to collect it in order to create a cure for Nezuko. He suddenly remembers Inosuke and runs back to meet him. Inosuke asks if he had defeated the demon, which Tanjiro answers that he had. When asked if he is alright, Inosuke proudly claims he is fine and will soon have a head harder than him. However, Tanjiro is dismayed at the extent of Inosuke's wounds and is saddened at being unable to save his fellow Demon Slayers.
He looks back at Mother's final moments and how she smelled so strongly of fear and suffering, enough that she wished for death. Tanjiro questions the mountain's nature, wondering why the Twelve Kizuki are present and if a family of demons lives within the forests, since demons do not group up.
Son of the Spider Family appears from above.
Elsewhere in the forest, Zenitsu feels a pain in his hand while walking in the woods searching for Tanjiro and Inosuke. He is annoyed by the forest's stench and is additionally repulsed by the spiders' sound. Suddenly, something moves behind him and he demands it to stop, only to look down and see a giant spider with a human head. Horrified and confused, he sprints away and wonders if he is actually trapped within a nightmare due to his situation. He soon finds himself within a clear and finds threads strewn across the trees.
Hanging on them is a wooden house and attached to the threads are Demon Slayers transforming into spiders. Even more worried and now nauseous from the overwhelming smell, Zenitsu receives a bigger surprise when a giant spider demon emerges from within the suspended house. Zenitsu sprints away in fear but the demon unexpectedly tells he that he has already lost. Unwilling to talk to the giant spider, Zenitsu flatly denies what he had said only to be told to look at his hand.
To his shock, it appears bruised and swollen. The Spider Demon tells him that since he had been bitten by a spider, he will soon transform into one.
After revealing to Zenitsu that he has been poisoned and will begin to transform into a spider, the Spider Demon pulls out a pocket watch and begins to describe the different phases of his transformation. He explains that within a span of a few hours, Zenitsu's hands and feet will begin to tingle, the feelings of dizziness and nausea will set in, followed by the feeling of intense pain, until his body finally shrinks and he loses consciousness. When he awakens, he will find that his body would have finished transitioning into a demon spider.
Zenitsu becomes even more horrified as the spiders crawl around his feet. He dashes away while openly admitting that he is already aware that running away will not help his situation, and ends up climbing a nearby tree. Witnessing Zenitsu's episode of panic, the demon laughs at him and reassures him that he has nothing to fear, as once the Demon Slayer finishes his transformation, he will no longer have a mind of his own or any sense of emotions. In response to his taunt, Zenitsu rambles saying that he doesn't want any of that and subtly insults him by saying "I bet you don't have any friends! People must hate you!", leaving the Spider Demon glaring at him with spite.
Zenitsu says he loves his trainer.
As Zenitsu continues to cry about his fate, the situation is reminiscent of when he had climbed up a tree in the past. A voice can be heard sternly yelling at him to pull himself together, as Zenitsu squeals about his impending death if he continues to train. His trainer stubbornly calls him an idiot and tells him that training won't kill him, commanding him to get down from the tree at once. Zenitsu continues to wail, calling the old man "Gramps"; he cries out that he loves him, much to his trainer's surprise, and that he is eternally grateful for paying off his debt. Nonetheless, he believes himself to not be capable enough to be a Demon Slayer.
He rants about his inability to make progress, describing how he trains to the point of lacking sleep but never sees any fruit to his labor and eventually lets out his anger at his failure. As Gramps tries to calm Zenitsu and claims he truly possesses talent, a sudden bolt of lightning strikes Zenitsu. Gramps looks on in horror as Zenitsu finally falls from the tree with his new striking blonde hair.
Zenitsu remarks that he hates his lack of self faith; though he means to do good, he ends up getting scared and fleeing. He insists that he wants to change and become better, yelling out loud that he is working as hard as he can, but transforming into a monster now, he can no longer handle even more issues. The Spider Demon is confused at his opponent's weird rants, as the spiders crawl up the tree. Zenitsu yells at them to leave but discovers that clumps of his hair are falling out, since the demon had not mentioned it before hand. Fear finally causes Zenitsu to fall asleep, driving even more confusion to the Spider Demon, in disbelief he had been sent to kill his family.
The Son Spider Demon uses his Blood Demon Art.
As he falls off the tree to the forest floor, Zenitsu begins to breathe and preforms Thunder Breathing, First Form: Thunderclap and Flash to jump off the trunk and initiate his attack on the Spider Demon. In response to the sudden maneuver, the demon spews his Poison Sputum to try deter Zenitsu, but he is able to evade his attack midair.
As Zenitsu lands on the ground he immediately attempts to utilize First Form: Thunderclap and Flash but is swarmed by numerous spiders. He continuously dodges their attacks and tries to use his form but is constantly hounded by the acidic poison of the Spider Demon, who realizes to his amusement that Zenitsu is capable of only one form.
Zenitsu thinks back to when Gramps had encouraged him that it was alright to only know one form, though he notes that before encouraging him, he was furious since Thunder Breathing had six forms. He remembers when his trainer began to pound his head continually, explaining that when a sword is made, the steel is beaten till all impurities are removed to refine it. Though Zenitsu understands, he claims he is not made with steel but flesh. The Spider Demon, seeing him standing still without attacking, believes Zenitsu will soon fall.
Gramps motivates his student to master his one form; he may cry and run but he must never give up. He tells Zenitsu to believe that all his training, no matter how hellish, will eventually pay off. "Be rid of all your impurities. Become a blade that is stronger than anyone!"
As Zenitsu recalls Gramps's message to master even a single thing, the Spider Demon launches another Poison Sputum blob, nearly hitting his body and dissolving his haori. More of the demon's spiders appear and force Zenitsu on the defensive, who begins to feel the poison making his hands and feet numb. He realizes that the poison will soon cause him pain.
Zenitsu getting bullied by a fellow trainee.
He remembers a time in his past when he was berated by another unnamed student of Gramps. The boy angrily scolds Zenitsu for crying all day and wonders why he was still being taught the Thunder Breathing techniques. The student feels he is worth their trainer's time, unlike Zenitsu. When he tries to interject and explain Gramps' reasoning, the boy throws a peach in his face and tells him to stop calling their trainer "Gramps" as an act of familiar. He remarks that their trainer is a former Hashira, and as one of the most highly regarded men in the Demon Slayer Corps, he believes training Zenitsu to be a waste of time and angrily dismisses him.
Zenitsu remarks that being an orphan meant he had no one to give hope or believe in him. "No one dreamed of a future where I'd latch on to something and fulfill a dream." Be it being useful or protecting someone, no one had the expectations that he could succeed. No one except Gramps. He would scold him continuously, and whenever Zenitsu tried to run away, he was there to pull him back, and though he was at times harsh, Gramps never gave up on him.
Zenitsu uses Thunderclap and Flash, Sixfold.
The Spider Demon commands his spiders to inject Zenitsu with more poison; using their barbed tongues, they attempt to stab him but miss. Zenitsu suddenly vomits blood while moving to evade them, allowing the spiders to pile on him. Suddenly, the Demon Slayer grips his blade and the air begins to vibrate, causing the spiders to fall off of him. He uses Thunder Breathing, First Form: Thunderclap and Flash, Sixfold and speeds towards the Spider Demon, launching six powerful dashes before decapitating his opponent instantly.
As the demon dies, Zenitsu falls atop the house, satisfied that he had accomplished his dream of protecting people. He realizes that the time spent with Gramps was truly not wasted, but as the poison takes hold, he struggles to cling to life. He urges himself not to give up and uses his breathing to slow the circulation of the poison.  He fights to survive, unwilling to let Gramps or Tanjiro be disappointed.
Elsewhere in the forests, Tanjiro hears the sound of a lightning strike — Zenitsu's attack —  but becomes confused since he doesn't smell thunderclouds. Inosuke is not bothered to investigate while Tanjiro intends to. He tells Inosuke to descend the mountain but his friend vehemently denies being hurt, much to his confusion.
"Father" emerges to kill Tanjiro and Inosuke.
Suddenly, they hear a nearby splash across the river: a pale young demon. Inosuke immediately gives chase but the demon calls out to her father. Emerging from the forest, a giant humanoid Spider Demon appears, angrily demand the Demon Slayers stay away from his family. He throws a punch against the riverbed that knocks back Tanjiro and Inosuke from the sheer force.
Tanjiro attacks the Father Spider Demon.
Using Water Breathing, Second Form: Water Wheel, Tanjiro attempts to slash off Father's right arm but discovers his blade are unable to cut through his thick skin. The demon tries to punch him but has his left arm pinned by Inosuke, who is similarly unable to cut further than the surface. Father flings them away and charges towards Tanjiro, demanding they stay away from his family. Inosuke attempt to attack from behind but is spotted and punched away, hurtling into the river.
Tanjiro uses Water Breathing, Second Form: Improved, Lateral Water Wheel, cutting through a tree in front of him and causing it to land on the giant demon, pinning him and saving Inosuke. Seeing his chance, he prepares to using Water Breathing's Tenth Form to finish off the demon but Inosuke warns him to remain on guard, too weak from blood loss to intervene.
Father picks up the fallen tree and swings it into Tanjiro, causing his blade to become stuck. With the Demon Slayer neutralized, the Spider Demon flings him away into the forest. Startled, Inosuke calls out to "Kentaro" as he hurtles away. Tanjiro, believing Father to be the Twelve Kizuki demon, warns Inosuke of the danger and advises him to stay alive and wait for him, promising to be back.
Shinobu approaching Zenitsu.
Atop the suspended house, Zenitsu's condition worsens and he struggles to breathe, to the concern of the transformed Demon Slayers he rescued. As he apologizes to Nezuko, a butterfly appears to float above him and flutters down, revealed to be Shinobu. She gently asks if Zenitsu is alright but the Demon Slayer doesn't respond.
To stop himself from hitting the ground too quickly, Tanjiro uses Water Breathing, Second Form: Water Wheel, slowing his momentum to a full stop safely. As he composes himself, a scream is heard nearby; looking behind him, Tanjiro finds Rui cutting Daughter's face with a web in his hands, the threads coated in her blood. Rui, surprised to see him, asks what he is looking at for, claiming their situation isn't a show.
Daughter's face slashed by Rui.
Having stumbled into a conflict between Rui and Daughter, Tanjiro questions Rui on why he is harming his friend. To this, Rui claims they are closer than just a superficial friendship. They are a family and the current matter is only between him and his older sister, threatening to carve up Tanjiro for interrupting. Tanjiro remarks that all bonds are precious, not just family but even friendships and that not being blood related doesn't make it superficial. He states that while he can smell the scent of a strong bond, all he senses from him and Daughter is the smell of fear, hatred, and loathing.
He flatly declaring their bond fake, angering Rui. Entering the situation, a lone Demon Slayer spots him and deems the demon to be an easy kill. As Tanjiro wonders who he is, the swordsman warns him not to take his kill, thinking that slaying the "kid demon" will make his rank and pay go up. He remarks that most of his unit is now dead but slaying one demon should suffice. As he charges towards Rui, Tanjiro warns him to stop but the demon flings a web at him, slicing the Demon Slayer into several pieces.
Tanjiro stares in horror at Rui's swift movements and sees him glaring with pure rage, sensing his menacing aura. Rui furiously dares him to repeat his words, worrying Daughter. Tanjiro grips his blade as he realizes that he must defeat Rui before he is able to return to Inosuke's aid, then proceeds to stubbornly repeat that the ties between Rui and Daughter are fake.
Father evolves into a stronger form.
Elsewhere on the mountain, Inosuke can be seen hiding behind a tree while trying to formulate a plan to deal with Father. The tree is suddenly smashed with such power that Inosuke is forced to get up and run away, thinking to himself that he has find a solution in order to survive until Tanjiro returns. Once Inosuke realizes that he's starting to depend on Tanjiro's help, he becomes infuriated with himself and decides to attack Father head on. He tries to slice through the demon's arms, and uses his anger and frustration to successfully cut through.
He expresses his excitement and proclaims his newfound strength, while he gloats on his accomplishment he sees Father running away and becomes infuriated by his audacity. He gives chase and hunts the Spider Demon down to a nearby tree, and witnesses him begin to tremble, thinking that he is doing so out of fear. However, Father begins to molt from his body into a larger, more menacing form. Inosuke can only stare in paralyzed fear as the newly transformed demon lands down to face him again.
As the newly evolved demon towers menacingly over Inosuke, he remarks having never felt such pressure seeing an opponent. Believing he will die, he remembers Tanjiro's words to wait for his return. Trying to find the motivation to continue, he remembers when Hisa had told him to live his life with pride and wished him good fortune. Realizing he cannot lose now, he takes a stance and declares he is "Inosuke Hashibira of the Demon Slayer Corps", commanding the demon to face him.
Father immediately punches Inosuke so hard, he slams into several trees. The demon quickly approaches the downed Demon Slayer to finish him off, but Inosuke avoids the blow and leaps into the air to attack him from behind. He tries to slice the Spider Demon's neck by using his Beast Breathing, Third Fang: Devour but his blades break when trying to slice through the thick skin. Father becomes infuriated and once again slams Inosuke into another nearby tree, knocking the wind out of him.
Inosuke gets caught by the Father Spider Demon.
He picks Inosuke up by the throat and squeezes him, yelling once again for him to "stay away from my family." Inosuke refuses to succumb and uses his Beast Breathing, First Fang: Pierce as a last ditch effort to escape, but his broken weapons fail to damage the giant Spider Demon. Father squeezes even harder and crushes his opponent's throat, and life begins to flash before his eyes. Inosuke recalls a memory of a woman coated in blood apologizing to him as an infant, and he also envisions the faces of Tanjiro, Zenitsu, and Hisa.
Giyu arrives, saving Inosuke from Father.
As he wonders who the woman is, blood begins to pour from his mask. Father's arm is suddenly sliced off and Inosuke drops to the floor. The Spider Demon squeals in shock as Giyu Tomioka enters the battle. Father quickly regenerates his arm and sprints towards Giyu with extraordinary speed, but the Hashira preforms the Water Breathing, Fourth Form: Striking Tide and dismembers the demon instantly. Inosuke gets up from the floor and stares at Giyu with admiration, becoming excited trying to figure out who he is as the latter nonchalantly proceeds to sheath his sword with the process of Nōtō (納刀, nōtō?).
Elsewhere on the mountain, Rui eerily reveals his intentions to slowly torture Tanjiro to death, but reassures him that if he takes back what he said, he will not prolong his demise. Despite sustaining several wounds, Tanjiro stubbornly refuses to take back his words and goes on to justify his reasons saying that Rui is the one that's in the wrong. Tanjiro braces himself and smells out the threads to avoid them as he approaches Rui.
He uses the Water Breathing, First Form: Water Surface Slash to slice through Rui's threads, but looks on in shock as his blade is split into two pieces by the thread.
Giyu ties Inosuke up in a tree.
After defeating Father of the Spider Family, Giyu is confronted by the Demon Slayer he had just saved. Seeing he has killed a Twelve Kizuki demon, Inosuke demands that Giyu fight him so that he can defeat him and rise up through the ranks. The uninterested Hashira simple tells him to go back to training, angering Inosuke; Giyu also mentions that the demon was not a member of the Twelve Kizuki while unbundling some rope.
Inosuke quickly retorts his statement, claiming he was right about not believing the demon was of the Twelve Kizuki and only repeated what Tanjiro had said, but he suddenly finds himself tied up in a tree. Stunned by his immense speed, he tries to call out to Giyu, who only tells him to stay out of battle if he doesn't recognize his own injuries. Inosuke yells out that he cannot hear him but the Hashira has already left him alone.
Nezuko protecting Tanjiro from threads
As he tries to dodge the thread that sliced his sword in two, Tanjiro sustains a long cut along his face. Shocked to see that the threads are even stronger than Father's body, he apologizes to Sakonji and Haganezuka. Rui then manipulates more to surround the Demon Slayer and close around him, as Tanjiro struggles to move away, remarking that the threads seem to be alive. Before he can get hit, Nezuko appears in front of him and takes the brunt of the attack, enduring numerous cuts throughout her body. Tanjiro looks on in horror as Nezuko bleeds from her wounds, and he quickly carries her away to safety.
Seeing her sudden appearance from the box, Daughter surmises that she is a demon. As Tanjiro apologizes to her for getting herself injured, Rui begins to tremble and points to Nezuko, asking if they are siblings. Tanjiro angrily answers that it doesn't matter if they are, examining the severity of her injuries. As the demon realizes that he has witnessed siblings protecting one another, much to Daughter's worry, he declares Nezuko's actions as a bond between family and something now he wants for himself. Sensing his sudden change in demeanor, Daughter tries to claim that she is his sister and begs him not to abandon her.
Suddenly, Rui lashes out and releases several threads from his fingers, slicing the demon to pieces along with several distant trees. He angrily claims that none of his family had ever fulfilled their roles as the dismembered Daughter states that even he recognized her as a sister at some point. When she asks for a chance to make up for her mistakes, Rui tells her to kill the remaining Demon Slayers on the mountain, willing to forgive her if she does. Daughter picks up her head and runs away. Now left alone with Tanjiro and Nezuko, Rui begins to strike a deal with the siblings.
He informs the two of how their bond had made him shiver, but despite the fact that it might break his heart, he would still have to kill them. Rui then goes on to inform them that the only way that he will spare them would be if Tanjiro handed Nezuko over to him. Enraged by his audacity, Tanjiro holds Nezuko tightly and angrily proclaims that he will never hand her over, claiming that she has her own feelings and free will to choose.
Rui reveals his mark as a Twelve Kizuki.
Rui responds to his claims by stating that he will use fear to forcefully form a bond with her, which infuriates Tanjiro even more. Again, Tanjiro angrily yells that he will never hand Nezuko over to him and that he will cut off Rui's head before she is taken from him. Realizing that Tanjiro will not give up easily, Rui claims that he has no choice but kill him and take Nezuko by force. He acknowledges his fighting spirit and pulls his hair to the side to hauntingly reveal that he is Lower Five of the Twelve Kizuki.
Rui recounts his belief of what the father and mother's roles are in a family, stating that the parents protect the children, and the older children protect the youngest, even with their lives. He adds that people who do not fulfill their roles in life are not worthy of living and informs Tanjiro that his sole role in life is to give up his sister or die, because he cannot win against him.
Rui kidnaps Nezuko and holds her hostage.
As Tanjiro contemplates a plan in order to defeat Rui, the demon becomes annoyed by his look of determination and wonders if he believes he has a chance of killing him; he uses his threads to capture Nezuko from behind Tanjiro and proceeds to hold her hostage. Desperate to save his sister, Tanjiro charges at Rui and demands that she is released, but as the demon begins to spindle more threads, Nezuko unexpectedly claws at his face, forcing him to release her. Lower Five launches threads at his opponent but Tanjiro flips back to avoid Rui's attack, only to end up losing sight of Nezuko.
As he looks around to locate her, a splash of blood falls onto his face and he looks up in horror to see his sister, profusely bleeding and strung up in the demon's threads. Rui calmly demands that Tanjiro stop his screaming since as a demon, Nezuko won't die. However, he believes she must accept her new role and decides he will let her bleed, adding that if she still doesn't obey him, he can leave her to burn when the sun rises. Despite his anger, Tanjiro regains control of his emotions and concentrates his breathing.
Tanjiro is trapped by Rui's Blood Demon Art, Cutting Thread Cage.
When he looks into the sky, Rui notices that Nezuko has lost consciousness and senses an "odd feeling" resonating from Nezuko, different to normal demons. Attacking the Lower Rank once again, Tanjiro performs the Total Concentration: Water Breathing, Tenth Form: Constant Flux to charge at Rui. Using increasingly powerful slashes by building up power with each swing, he successfully cuts the threads using his broken blade, catching Rui off guard. However, the demon is amused to think Tanjiro had believed he was using his strongest threads and infuses his blood into new ones, casting Blood Demon Art: Cutting Thread Cage in order to quickly end Tanjiro's life.
Tanjiro smells the immense danger coming from the unavoidable attack and believes he is going to die, unable to build up the power to cut through. Suddenly, his life begin to flash before his eyes. As the many moments of his life flood before him, Tanjiro recollects the theory that he is being given a chance to search through his memories to find a method to escape. At that moment, he remembers a memory from his childhood in which he played with Nezuko as their father watches them, before telling Tanjiro to control his breathing and "become like Hinokami."
Tanjuro explains the Hinokami Kagura Dance to Tanjiro.
On a cold wintery night, a young Tanjiro watches with his mother as his father performs a ceremonial kagura. Kie tells him that as their family works with fire, to keep themselves safe, they offer a dance and prayers to Hinokami, the fire god, at the start of each year. Tanjiro watches his father intently, looking at his attire and movements. In another time, he asks his father on how he could perform for so long in the cold, remarking his lungs could freeze.
Tanjuro tells he there is a special way of breathing that doesn't allow him to tire no matter how much he moves. If he can learn it, he'll be fine even in the cold and he could dancer forever. His father then makes him promise to wear his earrings when he performs the kagura, and to always wear them so they are not lost.
After seeing his memories, Tanjiro's Water Breathing ignites in fire as he uses Hinokami Kagura: Dance, slicing Rui's strongest threads before him. The demon instantly forms new ones in his path but Tanjiro pushes on and is determined to behead him, knowing that by switching to Hinokami Kagura from Water Breathing, he will reel from the exhaustion when he stops. He senses the Opening Thread but only his arm will reach him. He asks his father to forgive him as he closes in on Rui, believing that saving Nezuko can only be done if he sacrifices himself to kill the demon.
Nezuko uses Exploding Blood for the first time.
Nezuko, still strung in the threads, is visited by Kie, who asks her to wake up and tells her daughter she is now able. She tearfully tells her that if she doesn't act now, Tanjiro will die. Nezuko suddenly regains consciousness and stretches out her arm as she spots Rui and Tanjiro. Using Blood Demon Art: Exploding Blood, she wills her blood on the threads in Tanjiro's path to burn and destroys them, surprising Rui to see his attacks on fire. With Tanjiro's attack being countered by Rui, he had strung threads to kill him as he gets close, but Nezuko's blood stained on them has burned them away without harming Tanjiro.
His sword, containing a drop of Nezuko's blood, reaches Rui's neck, and despite the demon believing he won't be able to cut through, Nezuko's burning blood gives enough force for the blade to cut through, as Tanjiro declares that the bond between them won't be severed by anyone. With one final push, the Demon Slayer beheads Lower Five in a bright circle of flames.
After being dismissed by Rui, Daughter flees as she realizes her mistake of ruining the family; made up of demons who were all strangers to one another, they feared the Demon Slayers and wanted companions. Because he possessed all the abilities, Rui splits his powers amongst them, and since he was a favourite of Muzan, they agreed; his first act was to change their appearance to match his. It is also shown that despite her appearance, Mother was actually a young girl, who had only been recently been turned into a demon, thus she retained her human memories. She mourned her lost humanity and couldn't play her role sufficiently, which, along with failing to maintain her appearance, caused Rui to punish her.
Anyone who disobeyed him or failed to play their role was punished by Rui, through slashing them, taking away their intelligence, or leaving them in the sun. Daughter only cared about herself and dismissed the others as fools, but it is she who has made a mistake now. She recalls when she had told Rui that their mother and "older brother" have been defeated and asked him on what they should do with the Demon Slayers closing in. When Rui does not respond, she suggests that they should flee, unaware that her eyes have reverted to their original appearance. Notices this, Rui only glares at her with displeasure.
Daughter uses Acid Cocoon to trap Murata.
While wondering if Rui would eventually realize his goal to have a family is hopeless, she sees Murata, who notices her as well but is trapped in her Blood Demon Art, Acid Cocoon. He attempts to cut his way out, but the silk is too soft and durable. Daughter ominously tells him that the acid will first melt his clothes, before liquifying his body into her meal. Out of nowhere, Shinobu stands behind the demon and asks if she spins her silk from her palms. Shocked by her appearance, she fails to respond when Shinobu greets her and makes note of the moon's lovely appearance.
Daughter Spider Demon senses Shinobu's aura happen to be likes Rui's aura.
Daughter launches ropes of her silk but Shinobu evades the attack, surmising that the demon does want to befriend her. The demon comments that her attacker's strong aura is like Rui's, but instead, it feels cold and frightening, as if death is next to her. She then pleads for Shinobu's help, claiming that Rui is forcing her to act and if she crosses him, she will be punished. Shinobu seemingly pities her and responds that she will help if they can get along, but she must confirm something first. She asks the demon on how many people has she killed, to which Daughter answers she has killed five, worried over her intentions.
Shinobu states she sees hordes of cocoons in the trees.
The Hashira tells her not to lie since she knows she has killed 80. When Daughter denies this, she notes that she came from west of the mountain and saw hordes of cocoons, all with its captives dead, adding that she saw fourteen in one spot alone. Shinobu states she is not angry and simply wants an accurate number. When Daughter asks what good it is to be accurate, she answers it is so she can be punished and reborn to truly befriend her. She goes into graphic detail about how she will torture her; gouging her eyes, sliting her stomach, and pulling out her intestines so that she can be forgiven. The demon becomes horrified to hear this, and Shinobu taunts her by adding that as a demon, she won't have lasting wounds.
Shinobu uses Butterfly Dance: Caprice.
Daughter tries once more to trap her in silk, but Shinobu uses Insect Breathing, Butterfly Dance: Caprice and stabs her multiple times. She reaches her neck and sees she hasn't been beheaded, noticing Shinobu is too small to behead her. However, her heart rate climbs and she begins to bleed all throughout her body before slumping to the ground in pain. Shinobu tells the demon not to feel safe if she isn't beheaded, as there are those who use poison. She introduces herself as Shinobu Kocho, the Insect Hashira of the Demon Slayer Corps; she is the only one who cannot cut off a demon's head, but makes up with her usage of poison; she then offers a false apology to the dead demon because she cannot hear her anymore.
Shinobu frees Murata from the acidic cocoon.
Shinobu stabs the cocoon to free Murata, who emerges coughing and sputtering from his ordeal. She asks if he is alright, to which he responds he is fine, noting that she simply poked the cocoon with her blade to break it. Murata asks if it is safe to leave the demon unfinished, and Shinobu explains that the demon is dead due to her poison, made with wisteria and her chemistry expertise. She then comments that while his clothes have dissolved, his body is fine, causing Murata to cover himself in embarrassment.
After beheading Rui, the exhausted Tanjiro is relieved he has won, thanks to his father's help; despite not knowing if the kagura of his family would work, it has enabled him to save Nezuko. However, his vision is blurring, his ears are ringing, and his body is racked with pain, yet he realizes that Inosuke still needs him. He sees the unconscious Nezuko a distance away and begins to crawl towards her, unaware of Rui's body behind him. He then smells blood, instead of the scent of ash that is present when a demon dies.
Rui reveals he beheaded himself to avoid Tanjiro's attack.
Rui's body walks towards him as he reveals his head is attached to his threads, taunting him for believing he had killed him and revealing he had sliced off his own head to avoid his attack. Now planning to kill him and Nezuko, Rui remarks he has not been angry in a long time; Tanjiro attempts to catch his breath but is still too weak. The demon notes that Nezuko's flames only burned him and his threads, but is otherwise thankful he is alive, stating that now, he is so enraged, he can slice up the Demon Slayer without any regret.
As Tanjiro tries more desperately to regain his breathing, Lower Five uses Blood Demon Art: Murderous Eye Basket, surrounding him in a shrinking web of threads, and despite his efforts, he remains too exhausted to even pick up his blade. Before the web can close and kill him, Tanjiro is saved when Giyu intervenes, slicing the threads apart. As he wonders if the new figure is Zenitsu, Giyu commends him for holding on till his arrival, while Rui denounces the Demon Slayers as scum who continue to interfere with him.
Giyu defeats Rui after destroying his Blood Demon Art.
Using Blood Demon Art: Cutting Thread Rotation, the demon infuses his threads with blood and launches the spinning web at Giyu, who responds with Water Breathing, Eleventh Form: Dead Calm. As the web gets close, it suddenly disintegrates before hitting Giyu; shocked to see his strongest threads destroyed, he tries again but is easily decapitated by the Hashira. While Sakonji's Water Breathing only has ten forms, Giyu has developed an exclusive eleventh form based on a dead calm, when the sea has no waves and the still surface reflects like a mirror; when an attack get close, the form calms it into nothing.
Rui's severed head curses Giyu and threatens to kill him before killing Tanjiro and Nezuko, only to see the Demon Slayer embracing his sister. Stunned by the sight, he recalls when Mother had asked him what he wanted, but he could not answer at the time because he did not have his human memories; he created the Spider Family when he thought the memories would return if he felt a familial bond, realizing now that he had wanted to remember his parents.
Since birth, Rui had always been weak, so much so that walking was hard. One night, he was visited by Muzan, who transformed him into a demon to "save" him. His parents were upset to discover what had happened; while he became strong, he could no longer be out in the sunlight and was forced to feed on human flesh. They once found him after he had killed someone; Rui's father demanded to know what he had done while his mother cried in anguish. Previously, he had heard a story about a father who drowned saving his child from a river. He was touched and considered it an act of true parental love.
To him, dying to save your child was a parent fulfilling their role, before then questioning why his parents tried to kill him. Rui awoke to his father raising a knife to kill him, while his mother sobbed nearby. He fatally wounded them and sat outside, remarking that his mother's love was fake and that they weren't a real family. To his surprise, she apologized to Rui for not giving him a strong body despite giving him life, before dying. Upon hearing her last words, he remembered his father had said that he will die with him as well; in his anger, he failed to realize his father was willing to die and share his sin of killing someone.
It was then that Rui understood they truly had a strong family bond and he was the one to have just severed it. Muzan then appeared to comfort the young demon, stating that his parents were to blame because they could not accept what he became and telling him to be proud. Unable to bear the weight of his actions, Rui believed him, despite knowing that he was at fault.
Tanjiro comforts the dying Rui.
Even when he irrationally blamed his parents, he sorely missed them; creating his demonic family did not stop the feeling of emptiness, and because he was the strongest, no one in his family could truly protect him. As Giyu looks on, the demon's burning body falls short of reaching Tanjiro while recalling that the stronger he became, the less his human memories remained. In the end, all he could do was reach out to connections he lost and failed to recreate. Tanjiro senses the scent of sadness from his body and places his hand on him, Rui remarking it is as if warm sunlight is on him.
Rui is reunited with his parents, apologizing for his actions.
Having remembered his parents once more, he wishes he could apologize to them for something he accepted is his fault, but knows that by killing scores of people, he will go to Hell and doesn't deserve to be with them. In the afterlife, a hand comforts Rui and tells him that where he goes, they will go too. His father and mother appear, who tells him that even in Hell, they will go with him. As his appearance returns back into a human, Rui breaks down in tears and hugs them tightly, incessantly apologizing for his actions, as the fires of Hell consume the family; Lower Five finally fades into nothing.
Giyu steps on the demon's clothes and accosts Tanjiro for showing sympathy, stating that even when he looked like a child, he was still a centuries-old monster that ate people. Tanjiro retorts that to appease the spirits of those killed by demons and prevent more bloodshed, he will not hesitant to behead them, but he will not belittle the demons who regret their actions and suffer because of it, "Because demons were once human. Because they were human like me!", begging Giyu to move his foot. To Tanjiro, they are not ugly and worthless, but pitiful creatures who now exist as empty shells of their former selves.
Giyu then recognizes him and Nezuko, much to his surprise, before he then looks up to see something moving towards him. He swings his sword and blocks Shinobu's attempt to kill Nezuko. Surprised to see his actions, she recalls when Giyu had said that demons and humans cannot coexist, before saying his actions are why he is hated.
The girl from Final Selection leads the Kakushi.
After being treated and placed with the rest of the injured Demon Slayers, Zenitsu looks around to see masked figures quickly cleaning up the scene. He notices the girl leading them is from Final Selection, and she wears a similar hairpin to Shinobu. One man asks for where the wounded will go and she answers that they go to her place, the so-called Butterfly Mansion, before leaving to clear up any nearby demons to allow them to work in peace. The figures also find the tied up and unconscious Inosuke.
As Shinobu orders again for Giyu to move, he instead asks for why she said that everyone hates him, to Tanjiro and Shinobu's surprise. Shinobu slyly replies she was unaware he believed he was hated and apologizes for letting it slip, surprising Giyu and Tanjiro further at the unusual scene; she then tells the Demon Slayer he is guarding a demon and advises him to move away. Tanjiro states she is half-mistaken as the demon is in fact his younger sister, but Shinobu's response is offering to kill her with a gentle toxin, worrying him. Giyu speaks up and orders him to carry Nezuko and flee in spite of his wounds.
The girl stomps Tanjiro and Nezuko for escaping.
A grateful Tanjiro takes Nezuko in his arms, thanks the Hashira and runs away. Seeing this, Shinobu tells him that his actions are against the Corps' rules. Tanjiro grabs Nezuko's box as he runs through the forest, despite the immense pain his body is in. Nezuko soon wakes up as Tanjiro wonders if he will be forced to leave the Demon Slayer Corps as he knows they would not accept a Demon Slayer carrying a demon, let alone a sibling. Suddenly, the girl from earlier leaps from behind the trees and steps on his back, causing Tanjiro to fall and drop Nezuko; she raises her blade and tries to behead her but Tanjiro pulls her haori and causes her to miss. He calls for Nezuko to run away but is knocked unconscious by a swift kick to the head.
The girl pursues the fleeing demon but Nezuko shrinks down to make herself harder to hit; initially confused as to why she isn't fighting back, she sets aside her doubts and tries to kill her as she was taught. After restraining the Insect Hashira, Giyu is questioned on why he is acting against the rules by interfering with the slaying of a demon, Shinobu asking for him he explain himself. When she asks again, he replies it was because of something that happened two years ago, but she instead wonders if he is trying to bore her with a long-winded story to get back at her for saying he is hated by people, earning Giyu's ire.
Shinobu attempts to escape Giyuu's hold by deploying a blade in her shoe.
Shinobu deploys a blade in her shoe and attempts to escape his hold, but a Kasugai crow interrupts with an announcement, with her only barely missing his face. The crow gives the message that Tanjiro and Nezuko are to be taken back to their headquarters; the girl chasing Nezuko hears the message and asks her for her identity. Tanjiro is soon found by the masked people, who notes his severe wounds; one of them feels guilty for having to tie him up. These agents are known as Kakushi; the clean up brigade of the Corps in the aftermath of a battle, as most members lack the skill in swordsmanship.
As Tanjiro lies on the ground in a garden, still tied up and unconscious, a voice repeatedly orders him to wake up before yelling at him to do so. He looks up to see a group of swordsman looking at him, with the voice telling Tanjiro he is now in the presence of the Hashira.
