Inosuke nervously trembles as he remarks that the "Lord of the Land" lies before them. "It's so long and overwhelming, it's gotta be!", as he anxiously warns his friends that it is asleep. Zenitsu informs him it is simply a steam train but Inosuke warns him to be silent as he prepares to attack it. Tanjiro instead chimes in that it may perhaps be the land's "Guardian deity", cautioning him from attacking it, but Zenitsu irritably repeats that it is merely a steam train, annoyed by his countrymen's lack of knowledge. Tanjiro is surprised to know as his crow had mentioned a train is part of their mission, only to be interrupted by Inosuke head-butting the train carriage. Station police arrive at the commotion and are shocked to see them wielding katanas, causing Zenitsu to panic and grab Inosuke as he tells everyone to run.
Safe behind cover, Zenitsu explains that the Japanese government does not recognize the Demon Slayer Corps; as such, they cannot openly carry their weapons as they won't be believed if they explain demons exist. Tanjiro is dismayed to hear that their efforts aren't recognized, and although Zenitsu feels the same way, he instructs them to hide their katanas for safety, though he is annoyed by Inosuke's weak attempt at concealing his. Tanjiro informs them that the Mugen train is where they must meet Kyojuro, as he is already on board. Seeing as Tanjiro intends to talk to him, Zenitsu leaves to buy their tickets.
Tanjiro and Zenitsu meets the Flame Hashira.
Inside the train, Inosuke is aghast to realize they are inside its 'stomach', continuing to irritate Zenitsu. He asks Tanjiro if Kyojuro is indeed a Hashira and whether he knows what he looks like. As Tanjiro answers that he has a strange hair color and notable scent, they suddenly hear someone loudly exclaiming "Delicious!". They follow the sound and see Kyojuro himself in the middle of savouring bento boxes, continuing the exclamation aloud. Zenitsu notes that the Flame Hashira seems to merely be a glutton eating; Tanjiro attempts to get his attention but is yelled the word delicious as a response.
After he finishes eating, Tanjiro asks about his Hinokami Kagura, but like Shinobu, Kyojuro does not know about the style; he instead commends his father for using it in combat and does not elaborate. When he asks for more information, Tanjiro is merely asked to become his Tsuguko; Inosuke continues to bang on the windows as Zenitsu calmly watches people's reactions to it. Kyojuro then explains that Flame Breathing has a long history as in all ages, a Flame Hashira has always served over the years.
Kyojuro explains the five fundamental Breathing Styles.
He also explains the five basic Breathing Styles – Flame, Water, Wind, Stone, and Thunder – by which all styles extend from, such as Mist Breathing descending from Wind Breathing. When he asks "Mizoguchi" about his sword color, he learns that Tanjiro's blade is black and mentions being unaware of the Hashira that would wield a black blade, as such wielders purportedly do not master a style. However, to assuage his concerns, Kyojuro offers to train him at his place, something that Tanjiro is appreciative of. "What a considerate guy..."
Inosuke sticks his body out the window and claims he wants to race the train, much to Zenitsu's growing annoyance; Kyojuro warns him not to and to remain vigilant about the demon, surprising Tanjiro and Zenitsu. The latter is horrified as he believed they were travelling to the sight of the demon, to which the Hashira explains that over 40 people have disappeared on the train, including the Demon Slayers sent to investigate it, hence his investigation. However, this does not give Zenitsu comfort, claiming he will disembark as a conductor appears to inspect their tickets.
Kyojuro prepares to fight.
As he punches them, Tanjiro suddenly detects a terrible scent; the conductor tells them to enjoy their trip in a droning, lowly manner, and Kyojuro stands to unveil his blade, asking him to ignore it during this time of emergency. An immense demon suddenly appears in the carriage with them, startling the passengers. Kyojuro realizes it hid itself with its Blood Demon Art, before warning it from attacking. "If you bare your fangs at innocent people, my bright red Flame blade will burn you to the bone!" The demon angrily roars and charges at the Hashira, who responds with Flame Breathing, First Form: Unknowing Fire to behead it instantly.
Amazed by the display of power, Tanjiro asks the Hashira to make him a Tsuguko, followed by Zenitsu and Inosuke asking of the same, calling him "big brother Rengoku". Kyojuro happily offers to train and look after them all. As the four begin to fall asleep for the night, Lower Rank One continues to stand atop the train, pleased by their slumber. "Nothing will make me happier than to die as I dream!"
Enmu instructing four desperate children to cripple the Demon Slayers.
After punching the tickets of the Demon Slayers to make them fall asleep, the train's conductor begins begging for someone to put him to sleep as well, wishing to see his dead wife and daughter. He kneels down and it is revealed he is speaking to a disembodied hand with the kanjis for dream etched across it. The demonic hand commends him for his work and obliges, using a spell to put the man into a state of deep slumber. Behind it sits four insomniac children waiting for the hand's orders, who too wish to be put to sleep as well.
The hand instructs them to wait for the Demon Slayers' sleep to deepen as their instincts are so sharp, they can sense malevolence and demonic activity. He tells the children to not touch them when they tie themselves to the Demon Slayers. While he must stay at the front car, the hand reassures them they can earn their sleep once his preparations are complete. The hand is shown to be an extension of Enmu; as he stands atop the train locomotive, he remarks that a Demon Slayer's strength is only defined by their motivation coming from the heart and spirit. As such, destroying their spiritual cores will render them living corpses that are easy to kill. To the demon, all human hearts are like fragile glasswork.
Zenitsu dreams he is in a peach tree forest with Nezuko as his girlfriend, showing her the way to the ripe fruit and blooming clovers, wanting to make a ring of the flowers for her. When they must cross a shallow river, Nezuko insists she cannot swim, to which Zenitsu enthusiastically offers to piggyback her across the water. Meanwhile, Inosuke dreams he is leading a cave expedition, with a racoon "Ponjiro", squirrel "Chuitsu", and rabbit Nezuko as his underlings. He even offers Nezuko an acorn for obeying him as he leads the pack to an underground adventure.
Kyojuro dreams he is at home, sitting before his father after telling him he is now the Flame Hashira. However, his father rejects the achievement as taking up a worthless title, claiming his son will never amount to anything. After leaving him, Kyojuro meets with his younger brother Senjuro, who is anxious to hear about what he said: he too wonders if his father will be proud of him when he becomes the next Flame Hashira. Kyojuro reminisces on their father: he was not always despondent and bitter, and at one time, he performed his duties as Hashira and trained them with enthusiasm. This joy stopped suddenly one day.
Kyojuro encouraging his brother Senjuro.
Despite this, Kyojuro does not dwell on his disappointment knowing Senjuro has it worse, being very young when their mother died and scarcely knowing their father was once caring. He flatly explains that their father claimed no one would care, but that he also refuses to let it dampen his own enthusiasm. Addressing Senjuro, Kyojuro explains that unlike his lonesome self, he has his older brother to encourage him, telling him to walk the path in his heart as he has the passion to do so. He embraces the tearful Senjuro as he tells him to work hard in life.
Tanjiro is "reunited" with his family.
Tanjiro dreams he is walking back at home at a time before his family's deaths. He sees his siblings Shigeru and Hanako welcoming him back after selling charcoal. Shocked to be reunited with his lost siblings, Tanjiro tearfully embraces them as he apologizes incessantly, much to their shock. As Tanjiro sleeps with tears in his eyes, Enmu's hired passengers take their positions beside each Demon Slayer, tying a special rope to their wrists and their own. After doing so, they close their eyes and count to ten while breathing deeply, allowing them to sleep and enter their dreams.
In Tanjiro's dream, Hanako explains to the rest of the family how Tanjiro suddenly began crying while hugging them, to which Takeo jokingly calls him weird. Their mother Kie insists he is tired and needs to rest, but Tanjiro reassures them he is fine and that earlier, it was like he had a nightmare. Shigeru then jokingly covers him in a bed sheet, much to everyone's laughter. Enmu senses that everyone is falling deeper into their slumber, finding joy that they may never again wake up.
One of Enmu's minions enters Kyojuro's dream with the help of a special rope made by Enmu, that allows the user to enter the dreams of whoever they are tied to. She sneaks past his consciousness and rushes towards the "edge" of the dream. It is learnt that the dreams Enmu creates are finite and circular in shape, the realm of the unconsciousness exists beyond the dream and that is where a person's spiritual core is located. If their spiritual core is destroyed then that person becomes an empty husk of their self.
Kyojuro stops the girl.
The girl proceeds to tear down the walls of Kyojuro's dream and reach his subconscious. They find that it is entirely on fire and locate his spiritual core as Kyojuro begins to stir in the physical realm. She remarks that she has never seen a red spiritual core before as she proceeds to try and destroy it, however she is stopped dead in her tracks as back in the physical realm Kyojuro, sensing that he is in danger, grabs her neck in a vice grip leaving her immobile but not killing her. The pair are at a stalemate as the girl can no longer move and Kyojuro will not kill a human.
Tanjiro realizes he is dreaming.
Meanwhile in Tanjiro's dream, he asks his family of Nezuko's whereabouts and cannot hold back his concern at her being outside in daylight but is unable to remember why that is so. His mother asks him to prepare the bath and he goes out to collect water, on his way he sees the box he uses to carry Nezuko in and stares at it in vague recognition. However, just at that moment he bumps into a bucket and when he looks back at the spot where the box stood it was nowhere to be found and wonders if he is beginning to hallucinate.
Tanjiro finally gets to drawing the water but sees himself in his demon slayer garb in the water's reflection. His reflection, drags him beneath and warns him that he is in a dream and in danger in the physical world. He remembers that he is on a train and attempts to wake up but the dream only switches to him having dinner with his family.
Tanjiro is set on fire in his dream.
As Tanjiro wracks his head to figure out a way to escape the dream, back in the physical world Nezuko wakes up. She is puzzled to see Rengoku standing still while strangling a girl and her eyes then find Tanjiro who is visibly struggling to wake up from his dream. She moves up to him and starts shaking him to wake up so he can pat her on the head, when he fails to do so she headbutts him but that only causes her own head to start bleeding and she begins to cry. With blood still oozing out she sets Tanjiro on fire with her Blood Demon Art: Exploding Blood and to his surprise he bursts into flames in his dream as well.
Tanjiro bursts into flames in his dream and his siblings are taken aback. He is able to recognise Nezuko's scent from the flames and realises it is the fire from her blood, he slowly begins to wake up.
His home clothes are replaced by his Demon Slayer uniform and Nichirin blade as his siblings look on in shock and fear. They ask Tanjiro if he is alright and he responds by saying he must leave as he runs out of their house to find the demon who put him in the dream.
Tanjiro meets the dream Nezuko.
He runs into the Nezuko from his dream, still a human, who returns from picking vegetables as his mother Kie Kamado and Rokuta Kamado also join the pair. Kie asks him what is wrong and why he is dressed in such a peculiar manner.
Overcome with sorrow and regret, Tanjiro stops and wistfully thinks to himself how he should have been able to live his life this way forever and that the rest of his family should have been alive with him. He steels himself and accepts that he has already lost all of it and cannot go back.
Tanjiro cries after hearing Rokuta call out to him.
Tanjiro tearfully continues to run and find a way out of the dream, as Rokuta cries after him not to leave them behind. In his rush, Tanjiro doesn't notice that one of Enmu's minions was hiding close by. The minion hastily tries to find Tanjiro's subconscious to destroy his spiritual core. When he finally locates the subconscious he is taken aback by how vast it is and stands gaping in awe.
Meanwhile, another of Enmu's minion inside Inosuke's subconscious is disgusted at it being a cramped series of tunnels she has to crawl through. Suddenly she is shocked as Inosuke find her in his subconscious and yells at her for trespassing, scaring her away.
It is pitch black inside Zenitsu's subconscious as another minion stumbles around trying to find his spiritual core. Abruptly, the sound of sharp blades breaks the silence and Zenitsu appears behind the minion holding a large pair of shears. Enraged at finding a boy inside his subconscious, he says only Nezuko is allowed there and attacks the minion.
The minion gazes in awe at Tanjiro's subconscious.
Tanjiro still wracks his head to figure out how to escape the dream but is unable to find the demon, despite detecting the faint smell of one throughout the environment. He bids himself to hurry as he knows Nezuko is also asleep and thinks that if everyone else were also asleep then they would all be in deep trouble.
Back up at the top of the train, Enmu begins to get concerned as none of the spiritual cores have been destroyed yet but then brushes it aside, satisfied with them just being able to buy him some time.
Still struggling to find a way out of the dream, Tanjiro wildly looks around for a clue. Suddenly, the figure of a grown man dressed similarly to him, his father Tanjuro Kamado, appears behind Tanjiro with his back to him and tells him to draw his sword, as there is something he must cut.
All these odd sightings such as Nezuko's box, his own reflection in the water and now his father's words are all warnings from Tanjiro's instincts to point him in the direction of the solution he seeks. With a sudden realisation he knows what he must do but is a little hesitant, gritting himself he draws his blade and cuts his own neck clean through.
Tanjiro Kamado cuts through his own neck and manages to wake up screaming from Enmu's dream. Nezuko Kamado who had been next to him is startled by the noise as he checks his neck to make sure it is still intact. Tanjiro looks around the scene to gather his bearings and his eyes rest on Nezuko and he immediately asks her if she is alright.
Tanjiro discovers the rope.
As he reaches his hand out to her he notices that there is a rope tied to it which has now been burnt through due to Nezuko's flames, he notices that it smells faintly like a demon and when he pulls out his train ticket he finds that it too smells of demon and deduces that they were all put under the influence of the demon's Blood Art as the tickets were punched.
Surprised at how such a powerful Blood Art could hold such a faint scent, Tanjiro focuses on the rest of his surroundings and is shocked to find Kyojuro Rengoku standing still while restraining a girl by firmly gripping her neck and yells at Zenitsu Agatsuma and Inosuke Hashibira, who are sound asleep to wake up.
Nezuko burns the ropes.
Grabbing his Nichirin blade from beneath his seat Tanjiro gets to work and finds that his other companions also have ropes on their wrists, tying them to other people. He stops short of cutting these ropes with his sword, fearing there may be some danger in doing so and asks Nezuko to burn them instead.
Tanjiro is unaware that his caution is well placed because if the ropes were cut with Nichirin blades then the person invading the dreams of another would never regain consciousness, a risk Enmu had neglected to mention to his minions as he saw them as nothing more than disposable pawns and food.
He tries to wake his companions up but they don't stir, however the girl who had been tied to Rengoku begins to attack him and Tanjiro wonders if she is under the influence of a demon. This idea is quickly dispelled as she yells at him for interfering and that because of it Enmu wouldn't let them dream.
Tanjiro is puzzled as to why the minions are acting of their own free will as the others also wake up and close in on him. The girl yells at one minion who has awoken but refuses to step forward, saying she doesn't care if he has tuberculosis or not and if he didn't help out she would tell on him so that he wouldn't be allowed to dream.
The minion is comforted by Tanjiro's Spiritual Core.
Faintly recognising the unmoving boy as the one who had been tied to him, Tanjiro takes pity on him for having such a horrible disease and in enraged at the demon who is taking advantage of such people and their weaknesses. The boy however, no longer holds any hostility and refuses to move as inside Tanjiro's subconscious he had rekindled the kindness of his youth.
Upon stepping foot into the subconscious he met some sprites, bright and shining, the personification of Tanjiro's kindness. They guessed what he was looking for and had led him to Tanjiro's spiritual core, upon finding the radiant core exuding light and warmth the boy broke down crying and wished to stay there forever.
However, Tanjiro woke up on his own and the boy was pulled from the dream but not before he had grabbed one of the sprites and took it with him and it now lay inside him, a part of Tanjiro's heart in his own giving light and warmth where before there had only been darkness. This vulnerability to being influenced by the subconscious of the dreamer was the biggest risk to entering anyone's dreams and was why Enmu never entered people's dreams himself.
Enmu greets Tanjiro.
Determined to resolve the situation as quickly as possible Tanjiro knocks out the other minions, saying he had to go fight. He says he understands their desire to stay in their dreams, as he had wanted to stay in his own as well. Noticing that the one boy had begun move Tanjiro looks up at him and asks if he is alright to which the replies by thanking him.
Cheered up by this, Tanjiro eagerly resumes his mission to find the demon behind all these events. He reaches the end of the train car and opens the door to be taken aback by the strong stench of the demon and he is shocked that he had managed to stay asleep in such a situation.
Grappling himself to the top of the train, Tanjiro asks Nezuko to wake the others up and races forward to find Enmu at the top. The demon greets him and tells him he should have stayed asleep, continuing to say that Tanjiro should be thanking him for showing him such a nice dream. Taunting him, Enmu asks if next time he should show him his father coming back to life, enraging Tanjiro who gets ready to attack.
Enmu thinks to himself how he loves showing people nightmares after giving them pleasant dreams because he likes seeing them groan and writhe in pain. He resolves not to let his guard down so he can successfully destroy the demon slayers.
Noting that his Blood Demon Art is a long range technique where he mixed his blood with the ink on the train tickets and it activates as soon as the Train Conductor makes a cut mark on the ticket. This was all to ensure that the demon slayers would not notice they were being put under his influence until it was too late.
Enmu puts Tanjiro to sleep.
However, seeing Tanjiro awake and intact despite all these precautions shocks Enmu. As Tanjiro angrily draws his blade he shouts at Enmu not to trample on the dreams of others, the demon notices that he is wearing hanafuda earrings, recognising this as the demon slayer Muzan Kibutsuji ordered him to destroy.
Enmu is pleased to see that his target has come to him on his own so that he can acquire more of Muzan's blood to become stronger and eventually challenge one of the Upper Ranks for their position. Tanjiro begins to perform the Water Breathing, Tenth Form: Constant Flux however Enmu attacks him first with his Blood Demon Art: Whispers of Forced Unconscious Hypnosis, forcing him to sleep. Tanjiro immediately kills himself in his dream to wake up in the blink of an eye to keep his attack going.
Tanjiro's family berates him in his dream.
Puzzled as to why Tanjiro is not passing out, Enmu repeatedly attacks him with his Demon Art, only for Tanjiro to keep on instantaneously waking up and continuing his attack. Enmu acknowledges Tanjiro's grit to kill himself so many times even in a dream. Every time he was hit by Enmu's technique, he would see a nightmare where his family was chastising him, blaming him for their deaths and calling him useless.
Knowing his family would never say such things to him, Tanjiro grows even more enraged at Enmu and lunges at him with a powerful Tenth Form shouting at the demon not to insult his family in such a way. He chops off Enmu's head but is puzzled as to why there is no reaction from the demon. He wonders if he has been caught in another dream of if this demon was just weaker than Rui.
Tanjiro cuts off Enmu's head.
Suddenly, Enmu's dismembered head roots itself on top of the train to Tanjiro's shock and tells the boy that he is under orders to destroy him and the Hashira and that he understands why he was given such orders. Now to him, Tanjiro's very existence makes him twitch in anger.
Tanjiro's eyes grow wide with fear and confusion at Enmu still being alive and this fills the demon with glee and his head laughs, saying he had been looking forward to seeing that expression on the young demon slayer's face.
Elated, he explains that the reason he did not die was because neither that body nor the head currently speaking to him were his real body anymore and that he had fused with the train while they were all asleep.
As Tanjro continues to be appalled at what Enmu tells him, the demon laughs more, joyful at the boy's expression. He goes on to say that the entire train has become his blood, flesh and bones and that all of the passengers will become his food. Taunting Tanjiro by asking if he can delay this train and protect it's passengers, the dismembered head begins to dissolve into the train. Tanjiro rushes forward to swing at it but misses as it dissipates entirely into the train.
Tanjiro calls for his companions to wake up so they can protect the train together and is happy when he hears sounds emanating from below as Inosuke (who is still caught in the happy thoughts of his dreams) bursts through the roof beckoning his minions to follow him as his Explosive Awakening is about to commence.
Tanjiro Kamado calls out to Inosuke Hashibira as the latter bursts through the train's roof and asks him to protect the passengers, warning him that the whole train is a Demon and that no one is safe. Inosuke takes this affirmation that he was correct about the train all along and boasts that's why he is the boss.
Inosuke attacks the ingrowths in the train.
Using his Beast Breathing, Fifth Fang: Crazy Cutting he slices back down into the train and slashes apart all the Demonic ingrowths encroaching on the sleeping passengers below, declaring that he will save them all and that everyone would be bowing to him in thanks he proceeds to use the Fifth Fang to clear the entire car.
Nezuko Kamado also chips in by slashing through the Demonic flesh with her nails, however before long the ingrowths wrap themselves around her arms and legs, trapping her. A sleeping Zenitsu Agatsuma drops in front of her and manages to not only set Nezuko free but also the other passengers around them in a flash by using the Thunder Breathing, First Form: Thunderclap and Flash, Sixfold, he declares that he will protect Nezuko and she looks on in awe. Her admiration is quickly dispelled however, as he pops back asleep mid sentence and begins to snore.
Zenitsu saving Nezuko.
Meanwhile, in the car next to them, Tanjiro is busy slashing away to protect the passengers and wonders if the other are finally all awake as he hears the sounds of Zenitsu's technique. He cannot go to check however as he has his hands full with keeping the passengers on his side of the train safe and is also having difficulty swinging his blade due to the train car being too narrow.
Kyojuro Rengoku finally comes awake and feels ashamed that he was asleep while all this transpired, drawing his blade he blasts forward to where Tanjiro is, causing two of the train cars to violently jump up causing the boy to flip over and bump upside down into the car wall.
As he straightens himself, he looks up to see Kyojuro standing in front of him and the Hashira greets him, saying that he had landed some minor slashes on the ingrowths on his way over. Quickly formulating a plan, Kyojuro tells Tanjiro that the train is divided into eight cars and that he himself would take care of the back five, leaving Nezuko and Zenitsu to take care of the front three and tasks Tanjiro and Inosuke with cutting off the neck of Enmu.
Kyojuro wakes up.
Tanjiro begins to protest that the Demon is now a train with no neck but Kyojuro reassures him that it doesn't matter what a Demon looks like and that as long as it's a Demon it will have a neck, saying that he will also try to locate his weak spot while fighting him and tells Tanjiro it is time to get fired up.
In the blink of an eye Kyojuro blasts off to the back of the train in a wave of flames and Tanjiro is left in awe of his quick thinking and enormous skill. He quickly snaps back to earth and begins to rush forward to the front of the train, noting that Enmu's stench is growing stronger and stronger the further he goes, he shouts out for Inosuke as he runs and his friend yells down at him from the top of the train to quiet down.
He too had been very impressed by Kyojuro's handling of the situation and was rushing to do as he had asked. Tanjiro tells him they must take care of the front three cars and eliminate Enmu and Inosuke rebukes him by saying he already knows their task. He uses his Beast Breathing, Seventh Form: Spatial Awareness to locate Enmu's weak point and finds that it is at the very front also noting that it smells horrible. Both of them begin to rush forward to the front of the train to take down Enmu at last.
Tanjiro Kamado notes how all his companions are working hard to take down Enmu and protect the passengers and rallies himself to do the best he can so he can be of use as well. Following his nose, Inosuke wildly slashes around and jumps into the front car, saying that is where the Demon's smell is the strongest.
The Train Engineer is startled and yells at him to get out but Inosuke ignores him and continues forward, however, the Demonic ingrowths present in the car all form into hands and reach out to grab him.
Inosuke furiously slashes at the arms but is unable to contain them all and some of them grab him by the head and begin to crush him but are quickly sliced down with a Water Breathing, Sixth Form: Whirlpool performed by Tanjiro who arrives in the nick of time. Having cleared out the area, Tanjiro senses that the Demon's stench is coming from right below them and tells Inosuke as much and the boar boy angrily responds that he is the boss and Tanjiro shouldn't boss him around.
Inosuke attacks Enmu's flesh tentacles with Second Fang: Slice.
Performing a Beast Breathing, Second Fang: Slice at the floor to blast it open and Tanjiro looks on in disgust to see that Enmu's neck bone now runs through the bottom of the train right beneath their feet. He launches a Water Breathing, Eighth Form: Waterfall Basin at the bone but the attack is blocked by more ingrowths and the gash in the floor closes up again due to Enmu's regenerative powers.
Holding back the ingrowths is as much as he can accomplish on his own however and so he comes up with a plan to cut the neck where, in conjunction with Inosuke, one of them would cut all the flesh and the other would follow without delay and chop the neck.
Enmu uses his Blood Demon Art.
Commending this brilliant plan, Inosuke agrees but before they can proceed, eyes grow out of the ingrowths as Enmu uses his Blood Demon Art: Eyes of Forced Unconscious Sleep and Tanjiro falls asleep but not before advising Inosuke to kill himself in his own dream to wake up.
Tanjiro quickly regains consciousness again by killing his dream self but stares straight into another eye and falls back asleep, he falls into a cycle of falling asleep, waking himself up and immediately staring into a Demon eye until he begins to have his sword ready to chop his neck off in the real world before he falls asleep.
Tanjiro uses Hinokami Kagura: Clear Blue Sky to slash Enmu's exposed spine.
Inosuke stops him from committing such a grave mistake, saying that he is not dreaming at that moment and he shouldn't die in a lame way. He explains that since he is wearing his boar mask he is unafraid to look at the eyeballs directly and realises that due to the mask Inosuke has a hard time seeing the full gaze and is thus immune to their spell.
The eyeballs all get sliced shut by Inosuke, allowing Tanjiro to see freely again and he notices that the train engineer is about to intervene and attack Inosuke but Tanjiro intercepts and headbutts him. The train engineer however, stabs Tanjiro with the awl made by Enmu, Tanjiro immediately knocks him out and yells that he is alright, bidding Inosuke to quickly attack. Using his Beast Breathing, Fourth Fang: Slice 'n' Dice he reopens the floor, exposing Enmu's neck bone and Tanjiro asks his father for strength and perform the Hinokami Kagura: Clear Blue Sky.
His neck severed, Enmu unleashes a terrible scream.
Tanjiro's attack completely severs Enmu's neck, causing the Lower Rank to unleash a terrible scream and break into pieces. The piece of the Demonic train that Tanjiro and Inosuke are on begins to fall sideways, with the former's earlier wound from the Train Engineer suddenly flaring with pain. Inosuke notes this with concern, but Tanjiro tells him to protect the passengers, his only concern living so that the train engineer doesn't become a murderer. The young Demon Slayer is cast a short distance from the inevitable train wreck, with Inosuke immediately attending to him.
Enmu disintegrates.
Tanjiro asks Inosuke to help the trapped and badly injured engineer, and after a mild argument, the latter agrees to do so. Tanjiro then attempts to stabilize his breathing, wanting to go help the injured passengers.A short distance away, what remains of Enmu notes with disbelief his body's continued disintegration, his lack of regeneration, and his entire scheme's failure.
Someone lands opposite to Tanjiro and Kyojuro.
He further notes the interference of Kyojuro Zenitsu, and Nezuko with frustration, but expresses the most anger towards Tanjiro and Inosuke, attempting to maneuver his crumbling body towards them. This ultimately failing, the Lower Rank laments his inability to ascend to the rank of Upper Rank, desperately wanting a redo as he finally expires.
Kyojuro compliments Tanjiro on being able to constantly perform Total Concentration Breathing, stating that he is one step closer to becoming a Hashira. He then notes the youth's injury, a collapsed blood vessel, and instructs him on how to stop the bleeding. Tanjiro puts all of his focus on stopping the hemorrhage, with support from his superior, and eventually succeeds. Kyojuro explains that if he masters his breathing, he will be able to do a multitude of things, and also informs the youth that all the passengers are safe. Without warning, someone lands near the two and instantly hits into the ground violently upon impact.
The mysterious newcomer aiming to attack a prone Tanjiro.
The dust settles to reveal a tattooed Demon, who Tanjiro quickly realizes is Upper Rank Three of the Twelve Kizuki. The powerful foe swiftly attacks the prone Demon Slayer, but Kyojuro defends the youth and slices the offender's arm in twain with the Flame Breathing, Second Form: Rising Scorching Sun. The Demon retreats a short distance, the damaged arm quickly regenerating, and compliments Kyojuro's blade.
The Upper Rank proposes Kyojuro become a Demon.
Kyojuro states he cannot understand why the Demon would attack a wounded person, the answer to which is that they would simply get in the pair's way. Kyojuro dismisses this, stating that despite this being their first meeting, he already hates the Upper Rank, a sentiment the Demon shares with weak humans. Kyojuro notes their different moral values, to which the Upper Rank offers a proposal: become a Demon like him. The prominent Demon Hunter quickly declined this, but the Upper Rank complimented his strength nevertheless, deducing him to be a Hashira.
Kyojuro introduces himself as the Flame Hashira, while the Upper Rank reveals his name to be Akaza. He goes on to say that Kyojuro will never cross into "supreme territory" because he is human, destined to grow old and die, and again proposes he become a Demon. Tanjiro notes that Akaza smells similarly to Muzan Kibutsuji and desperately searches for his sword to help Kyojuro. The Hashira explains that growing old and dying is the fleeting beauty of humanity and that their strength doesn't lie in the body. He states that Tanjiro isn't weak and shouldn't be insulted, repeats his earlier observation of their different moral values, and firmly declares that he will never become a Demon.
Akaza readies an attack.
Akaza unleashes his Technique Development, Destructive Death: Compass Needle as he readies his fighting stance, declaring his intent to kill Kyojuro for his refusal, and the two clash. As Kyojuro uses the Flame Breathing, First Form: Unknowing Fire, Tanjiro is unable to follow their fight with his eyes, while elsewhere Inosuke senses the conflict. Akaza informs Kyojuro that all of the Hashira he had killed previously had refused his proposal and that he cannot understand their reasons for doing so. He tells the Hashira to die while he is still young and strong, and the two exchange attacks with the Flame Breathing, Fourth Form: Blooming Flame Undulation and Destructive Death: Air Type. Kyojuro quickly deduces the nature of Akaza's fighting style, deciding to close the distance to the Upper Rank.
Kyojuro and Akaza exchange a clash of techniques.
The Demon compliments Kyojuro's reaction speed, and the two exchange a flurry of blows. Akaza also compliments the Hashira's swordsmanship, stating that losing these skills would be sad, but Kyojuro denies this.
Tanjiro attempts to stand to assist his superior, but Kyojuro orders him not to move on account of his recent wounds. Akaza continues his assault on the Hashira, chiding him for paying attention to a weakling instead of focusing on the fight at hand. Inosuke arrives just in time to see the two exchange another clash of techniques with Kyojuro using the Flame Breathing, Fifth Form: Flame Tiger and Akaza using his Destructive Death: Disorder.
Despite his injuries, Kyojuro remains determined to defeat Akaza
Tanjiro looks on with concern as Akaza tells an injured Kyojuro not to die, while Inosuke notes that he cannot assist the Hashira, as he can sense that he would only be in the way. Akaza warns Kyojuro of the futility of his attacks and points out the extent of his numerous injuries, while also noting that none of this would be an issue if he were a Demon.
Kyojuro is impaled through the chest by Akaza
Tanjiro attempts to help his superior, but cannot due to the side effects of the Hinokami Kagura. Despite his injuries, Kyojuro's determination is unwavering as he prepares to unleash his ultimateattack Flame Breathing: Esoteric Art, Ninth Form: Rengoku, much to Akaza's delight. The Upper Rank responds with his own attack, Destructive Death: Annihilation Type, causing a large explosion. Tanjiro and Inosuke watch helplessly as the dust clears to reveal Kyojuro impaled through his solar plexus by Akaza's arm. The latter repeats his desire for the Flame Hashira to become a Demon, stating that he is one of the strong ones that has been chosen.
Kyojuro then has a flashback from his childhood, where his mother asked him why he was born stronger than other people. The young Kyojuro told her that he didn't know. She told him that it was to save the weak, that it was the obligation of anyone born strong to fulfill this duty, and to make sure he never forgot this, to which Kyojuro agreed. She then hugged her son, tearfully noting that she would not be alive for much longer, but that it was a blessing to be the mother of such a strong, gentle child.
Kyojuro continues his attack on Akaza despite his grievous injuries
Back in the present, the Flame Hashira swings his sword at Akaza's neck, much to the latter's astonishment. Kyojuro thanks his mother for giving birth to him, calling it an honor, and presses the attack deeper into the Demon's neck. Akaza attempts to punch the Hashira with his free arm, but Kyojuro stops it with his own, to the Upper Rank's continued shock. He then notices that the sun has begun to rise and attempts to finish Kyojuro off, but realizes that his arm is stuck in the Hashira's abdomen. Kyojuro determinedly vows to not let Akaza escape.
Akaza manages to break away from Kyojuro's grasp.
As the sun begins to rise, Tanjiro sees an opportunity to defeat Akaza and rushes towards the Demon. Desperate to escape the sunlight, Akaza struggles to free himself from Kyojuro's grip, but the Hashira's burning determination keeps Akaza trapped in place as his blade cuts his neck. Tanjiro yells at Inosuke to move for Kyojuro's sake, and the masked youth complies, rushing forward to attack Akaza.
As Inosuke prepares to utilize his Beast Breathing, First Fang: Pierce, the Upper Rank manages to escape at the last moment, sacrificing both of his arms, with Kyojuro's blade still stuck in his neck. He tries to flee into the nearby forest to escape the coming sunlight, but Tanjiro hurls his sword at the Demon, impaling him through the chest.
The young Demon Slayer angrily chastises Akaza for running away like a coward, angering the Upper Rank. Akaza looks back at Tanjiro, disgusted by his stupidity for thinking that he would be running away from them, instead of trying to evade the sunlight. Tanjiro continues his rant, stating that the Demon Slayers would always risk their lives to hunt Demons, even at night when they were at a disadvantage and unable to regrow or repair their bodies.
Inosuke and Tanjiro tremble after Kyojuro's fight.
Tanjiro calls Akaza a coward as he escapes into the forest, then proceeds to proclaim Kyojuro to be stronger and the true victor of their battle. Inosuke begins to tremble as he watches Tanjiro begin to wail, with tears streaming down his face. An appreciative Kyojuro gently tells him to stop crying, expressing his concern that Tanjiro's wounds would open up again. Kyojuro tells him that if he reopens his wounds and dies from his injuries, then Kyojuro would've lost the battle from failing to protect his comrades. He proceeds to instruct Tanjiro to come and have a final chat with him and the tearful youth complies. Tanjiro sits before Kyojuro with tears streaming down his face, as the Hashira begins to relay what he had remembered from his flashbacks.
Kyojuro encourages his juniors to live life with their chests held high.
Kyojuro suggests that Tanjiro visit his parent's house, noting that he may find information on Hinokami Kagura in the old Flame Hashira notes his father often read. A worried Tanjiro pleads for him to stop talking and find a way to stop the bleeding of his wounds, something the Hashira states cannot be done. He asks the young Demon Slayer to let him talk while he still can, and further asks him to give his brother and father messages from him. To his brother, Kyojuro states that he should follow whatever path his heart tells him to, and to his father, he asks him to take care of his body.
The spirit of Kyojuro's mother appears before him.
The dying Hashira then tells Tanjiro that he accepts his sister as a Demon Slayer, citing her heroic efforts in the Demon-possessed train. He states that anyone who risks their life in this way is a Demon Slayer, and to live life with their chests held high, unburdened by the fear of failure and death. He tells them to not worry about his death, as Hashira are meant to be the shields of their juniors, and that anyone would have done the same in his position. He then expresses his belief in Tanjiro, Inosuke, and Zenitsu, stating they will become Hashira who will support the Demon Slayers. The Flame Hashira then noticed his mother's spirit nearby and asked her if he had done everything right, to which she replies that he did a wonderful job. A grateful Kyojuro smiled and then peacefully passed away.
Some time later, Zenitsu informed Tanjiro and Inosuke of Kyojuro's heroics, in which he had used an extensive amount of his techniques to save the passengers when the train derailed. He then asked Tanjiro if an Upper Rank had really come and if they were that strong, which the youth confirmed. A tearful Tanjiro expressed his lack of strength and aid to Kyojuro's fight, wondering if he could ever be like him. Inosuke suddenly burst into the conversation, berating his comrade for his timid words, calling them pointless, and stating that they simply had to live up to their superior's expectations.
Kagaya hears of Kyojuro's death and blesses him for the afterlife.
The masked youth also informed his comrades that all creatures eventually die, and that they shouldn't shed a tear out of regret, regardless of the cause of it. Zenitsu points out that Inosuke is also crying, causing him to be headbutted by the latter, who also starts beating on Tanjiro, telling him they need to start training as a pair of Kakushi run up to the three.
The news of Kyojuro's death is then spread to Kagaya Ubuyashiki and the rest of the Hashira via Kasugai Crows, each of whom reacts differently to the grim truth. In particular, Kagaya expresses praise for his subordinate's heroic feat with the two hundred passengers of the train, and that he won't be lonely, as soon he and everyone else present with him will head to the land of Yomi.
