Confused by his surroundings, what a Hashira is, and who are the people around him, Tanjiro's uncertainty is answered when Shinobu tells him he is at the Demon Slayer Corps Headquarters and will now be put on trial. Within the Corps exists the Hashira, the nine most skilled and powerful Demon Slayers in the organization. Whereas lower-ranked members die quickly and frequently, the Hashira provide stability within the Corps.
Flame Hashira Kyojuro Rengoku believes they can kill him to enact justice.
Flame Hashira Kyojuro Rengoku believes a trial is unnecessary; since protecting a demon is plainly against the rules, he advises them to kill Tanjiro and Nezuko summarily. Sound Hashira Tengen Uzui offers to do the task, promising to flamboyantly spray Tanjiro's blood with panache. On the other hand, Love Hashira Mitsuri Kanroji is against killing "such a cute kid" and refuses to act. While the Stone Hashira, Gyomei Himejima, pities the siblings for being born, Mist Hashira Muichiro Tokito is instead looking at the clouds above him, ignoring the situation. As the Hashira talk amongst themselves, Tanjiro scans his surrounds for Nezuko and wonders on the whereabouts of Zenitsu, Inosuke, and Murata.
One Hashira ignores him and wonders what they will do with Giyu; sitting the trees, Serpent Hashira Obanai Iguro recalls Shinobu stating that Giyu broke the Corps' rules, and he wonders on what punishment he should take, even becoming annoyed to see him standing freely. As Mitsuri comments on Obanai's demeanor, Giyu, the Water Hashira, ignores Obanai's threat, much to Mitsuri's additional excitement. Shinobu believes they can settle on a punishment later, given that Tanjiro came without a fight; she is more interested in questioning him; Tanjiro becomes dismayed to see Giyu is now in trouble because of him.
Shinobu giving Tanjiro water to ease his pain.
Still injured, he begins to cough as he explains himself and is provided water with an additional painkiller by Shinobu. He states that his sister was transformed into a demon but that she has not eaten human flesh, claiming that she won't or ever will. Obanai refutes him, believing that Tanjiro is biased to protect his sister, and Gyomei believes they must kill him quickly for thinking such things. Tanjiro begs them to listen and states he became a Demon Slayer to protect her, mentioning it has been two years and she hasn't bitten anyone. Tengen instead believes that his explanation is circling endlessly, disregarding that Nezuko hasn't attacked anyone as empty words, while Muichiro looks at a bird. However, Mitsuri is unsure they can proceed without their master's knowledge, urging her peers to wait for him. Tanjiro yells out that Nezuko has fight beside him, and that she too can fight for the Corps and protect people.
Wind Hashira Sanemi Shinazugawa questions Tanjiro's actions.
Someone enters the scene and enjoys the tense situation; as a Kakushi urges the individual to put down Nezuko's box, he insults Tanjiro as the "idiotic Corps member" who travels with a demon; Wind Hashira Sanemi Shinazugawa demands to know what he is trying to do. As Mitsuri admires his rugged appearance, the Kakushi apologize to Shinobu for allowing his interruption. Unexpectedly, Shinobu, with a stern expression, orders Sanemi not to act rashly. However, Sanemi questions Tanjiro's own actions, asking how he could believe a demon could possibly fight for the Corps. Dismissing it as a completely impossibility, he draws his blade and stabs into Nezuko's box in front of everyone, impaling the demon in her shoulder. Tanjiro sprints at the Hashira and declares he will not let anyone hurt Nezuko, as Sanemi dismisses his challenge and prepares his blade. Giyu suddenly calls out that the master is arriving, causing Sanemi to lose focus and miss his swing, allowing Tanjiro to head butt squarely in the face.
Mitsuri bursts out in laughter but quickly recomposes herself as the Hashira look at her with confusion. Obanai, despite noting Giyu's intervention, is impressed he has landed a blow on Sanemi. Tanjiro stands in front of Nezuko and advises Sanemi to quit if he can't tell between good and bad demons. Enraged, Sanemi threatens to kill him, but the tense standoff is diffused when the master's arrival is announced; the man greets the Demon Slayers, and Tanjiro looks at him with curiosity.
The master greets the Hashira.
The Master bids everyone a good morning, remarking about the pleasant weather and happy to see that in their bi-annual Hashira meetings, not one member has changed. Tanjiro remarks about the man's unusual appearance, wondering if he carries scars or is sick, when he is suddenly shoved to the ground by Sanemi. Stunned by his tremendous speed, he soon notices the rest of the Hashira bowing before the master. Sanemi warmly greets the Master and prays for his increased happiness and good health; as the Master thanks him for his kind words, Mitsuri quietly laments not being able to greet him.
Before their meeting can start, Sanemi brings up the issue of Tanjiro, a Demon Slayer who travels with a demon, while Tanjiro himself notes that despite his earlier brutish demeanour, Sanemi is now speaking remarkably politely. The Master apologizes for surprising them with the situation but reveals he has accepted the siblings, wanting the Hashira to do so as well. The Hashira are stunned to hear this; Gyomei, despite knowing it is his request, cannot accept a demon, and Tengen "stylishly" opposes as well. Mitsuri wholeheartedly agrees with the Master, as does Muichiro since he will forget he agreed with him later on. Shinobu and Giyu remain silent, Obanai and Kyojuro vehemently disagree with this, and Sanemi demands that Tanjiro and Giyu are both punished.
Having received their answers, the Master asks for his aide to read a letter; she explains it was written by the former Water Hashira Sakonji Urokodaki and reads a portion to the Hashira. In it, Sakonji wishes for Tanjiro and Nezuko to be forgiven, believing that through strong spiritual training, Nezuko has maintain her humanity, even refusing to eat humans when she starves. For two years, she has persisted, and though it seems inconceivable, it is the truth. Ultimately, should Nezuko ever attack a person, along with Tanjiro and Giyu, he will atone for her actions by committing seppuku. Tanjiro looks at Giyu and tears up at the realization of his devotion towards Nezuko.
The Hashira shocked to hear Tanjiro's encounter with Muzan.
Sanemi dismisses Sakonji's vow and believes it doesn't prove anything, and Kyojuro adds that killing a human is an irreversible act. The Master acknowledges this but adds that they cannot prove Nezuko will attack, silencing the two. Since it is a fact that Nezuko has not killed anyone for two years, and three people have staked their lives on her, he urges them to offer an argument stronger than Sakonji's promise, causing them to remain silent. The Master also mentions that Tanjiro has crossed paths with Muzan Kibutsuji. Everyone is shocked to hear this as not one member of the Hashira has ever encountered Muzan.
Tengen asks Tanjiro for his appearance and what his abilties were, while Muichiro asks if he fought him. Sanemi pulls Tanjiro's hair and bombards him with questions such as his actions and his lair; when he and Tengen enter a confrontation over getting answers first, the Master wordlessly raises a finger and they silence themselves immediately. He reveals Muzan has sent demons after Tanjiro, and while it could be as simple as wanting to kill Tanjiro, he has truly revealed himself for the first time and they cannot let the opportunity escape; he adds that perhaps Muzan sees something unexpected in Nezuko as well.
When he asks the Hashira if they now see the importance of the siblings, Sanemi once again objects and believes that while sanctioning a human is one thing, sanctioning a demon is entirely different. He draws his sword and cuts open his forearm, shocking everyone; aiming to prove to the Master that demons cannot be trusted, he drips his blood over Nezuko's box.
Nezuko salivates as she smells Sanemi's blood.
Obanai tell Sanemi to avoid the sunlight or Nezuko will not emerge. Sanemi apologizes for his discourtesy to the Master and leaps into the shade. As he draws his sword, Tanjiro calls out to Nezuko when Obanai suddenly drives his elbow into his back, preventing him from breathing and moving. Sanemi stabs Nezuko again and taunts her with his blood, when the door of her box flies open. She emerges from inside and stares at him, breathing heavily. Shinobu warns Obanai he is pushing too hard on Tanjiro and asks that he ease his hold, but Obanai believes he is trying to escape. She tells Tanjiro not to breathe with his lungs compressed or risk rupturing his blood vessel, but Tengen becomes excited and demands he rupture them, much to Mitsuri's concern. Gyomei pities Tanjiro for his situation.
As Nezuko verges closer to attacking Sanemi, Tanjiro, with great difficulty, summons the strength to break free of restraints, while Obanai's arm is grabbed by Giyu to stop him. Knowing he can't intervene, he calls out to Nezuko, who turns to see her brother. Recalling Sakonji's words message to help humans and not hurt them, her mind is flooded with memories of her family, finally seeing Tanjiro and reiterating that she must never hurt humans. She turns away from Sanemi's bloody arm, surprising him; as the Master is blind, he asks his aide for what has happened, who tells him that Nezuko turn away from Sanemi. Despite being stabbed three times and being directly offered his blood, she did not attack him.
Nezuko refuses Sanemi's taunts and turns away.
The Master sees this as proof that Nezuko will indeed not attack humans, surprising Sanemi and Tanjiro. Obanai pulls his arm from Giyu and demands to know what he is doing, who ignores his question. The Master tells Tanjiro that despite the events of today, there will be those who will still view Nezuko unfavorably. With the proof he needs, he declares both siblings members of the Demon Slayer Corps; as he listens, Tanjiro notes a floating feeling in his head from the Master's voice. He urges Tanjiro to slay a member of the Twelve Kizuki and believes the Hashira will see his value then. Tanjiro vows that he and Nezuko will defeat Muzan Kibutsuji and end the pain caused by demons.
The Master remarks that he is still not ready for such a task and advises him with the Kizuki demon instead, causing Tanjiro to recompose himself from his confident promise. As Tengen and Mitsuri hold back their laughter at Tanjiro's misplaced intentions, the Master tells Tanjiro that the Hashira are tremendously talented, and through laborious training, they have defied death, pushed themselves, and defeated members of the Twelve Kizuki. As such, people shows the Hashira their respect and welcome them, asking Tanjiro to mind how he speaks in front of them, which Tanjiro understand. Finally, he addresses Obanai and Sanemi and asks them not to torment those younger than themselves, which the two acknowledge.
The head of the Demon Slayer Corps is a man named Kagaya Ubuyashiki. His voice and rhythm are known to soothe those he speaks to; known as 1/f fluctuation, it is a skill that is found in those who are charismatic and have the strength and presence to move masses of people. Concluding his trial, Kagaya advises Tanjiro to leave as the Hashira meeting commences.
Muichiro becomes annoyed by Tanjiro's interruption of Kagaya.
Shinobu offers to house Tanjiro at her mansion, and at her signal, two Kakushi appear to take him away. Eeven before Kagaya can begin, Tanjiro interrupts him and begs for more head butts on Sanemi, one for each time he stabbed Nezuko. As the Kakushi attempt to reel him in, he claims that head butts are not against their rules but is suddenly knocked down by three flying pebbles. Muichiro tells the Demon Slayer that interrupting Kagaya is rude, causing the Kakushi to abruptly apologize to the Master and the Mist Hashira; Mitsuri notes that despite his aloof behavior, Muichiro really was aware of the situation. As Tanjiro is taken away a second time, Kagaya asks him to give Tamayo his regards.
While being taken away, Tanjiro ponders on Kagaya's final statement to him about Tamayo, while the Kakushi instead confront him for his behavior because the Hashira frighten them, demanding that he apologize now for antagonizing them. When they arrive at Shinobu's place, the Butterfly Mansion, they see no one at the front and head to the back; as the Kakushi carrying Tanjiro asks if he can walk by himself, Tanjiro remarks his entire body is in pain. They see a girl in the garden and realize she is a Tsuguko. She is Kanao Tsuyuri, and a Tsuguko is a highly skilled Demon Slayer trained by a Hashira. Tanjiro remembers her as the girl from Final Selection, but the Kakushi carrying him believes he forgot Kanao was the one to knock him unconscious.
Kanao Tsuyuri.
They asks for her permission to enter the mansion, under Shinobu's orders, but Kanao simply smiles at them. A loud voice then calls them from behind and asks who they are, startling them. When she realizes they are Kakushi and carry an injured person, she takes them in. Inside the mansion's hospital, Zenitsu bemoans being forced to take unpleasant tasting medication five times a day for three months, much to the concern of the girl tending to him. When she asks that he calm himself, Zenitsu instead yells for answers about his situation.
Tanjiro reunites with Zenitsu.
The girl leading the Kakushi, Aoi Kanzaki, sees his complaining and demands he accept his circumstances, threatening to tie him to the bed. Tanjiro sees his friend and asks if he was hurt and if he came to the mountain. Zenitsu is relieved to see him and explains how a large spider injected him with a poison, and yet, Aoi is seemingly worse, while being eyed by the visibly annoyed Aoi. When he asks for Inosuke and Murata, Zenitsu does not know the latter but points to Inosuke in the next bed. Tanjiro gets off the Kakushi and crawls to his bed, relieved to see him and tearfully apologizing for not helping him.
Inosuke quietly forgives him, surprising Tanjiro with the hoarseness in his voice. Zenitsu explains his throat was crushed and his neck was severely injured, yet he continued to yell afterwards, leaving his throat in terrible condition. He adds that since his injuries, Inosuke has been mellow and calm, much to his relief, though his delight at Inosuke's misfortune leads to Tanjiro questioning his friend's sanity. Tanjiro's listed injuries are multiple cuts, abrasions on his face and limbs, sprains throughout his body, pulled muscles, and contusions in his jaw. Zenitsu was poisoned, leaving numbness in his right arm, right leg, and trembling in his left arm. Inosuke suffered trauma to his larynx and vocal cords, while Nezuko only sustains a lack of sleep.
The four eventually recover; Nezuko sleeping in her box, Tanjiro persisted despite great pain, Zenitsu continued to complain about taking his medication, and Inosuke, though depressed over his weakness, was continually encouraged by his friends. A while later, a visitor appears to greet Tanjiro; Murata, who only sufferd a jammed finger. He tells them about how he was summoned to the Hashira meeting to report about the incident on Mount Natagumo, and how during said meeting, they were all angered by the Demon Slayers' lackluster skill and believed their quality had been declining; Murata was especially interrogated on his peers' trainers and whether they followed orders
Shinobu asks Tanjiro, Zenitsu, and Inosuke about their recovery.
As he continues to bemoan his unpleasant encounter with the Hashira, they are joined by the Insect Hashira herself, causing Murata to flee at the sight of her. Shinobu asks the three on how well they are doing; when they answer they are much better, which the exception of Inosuke, Shinobu states it is now time for them to begin Rehabilitation Training.
Zenitsu remembers the sound Shinobu make.
As Zenitsu continues to heal, he has been dutifully following his routine of medication and sunlight exposure, and while he knows he would recover, he hears that some of the recovered Demon Slayers had suffered after effects. He remembers the sounds Shinobu make and that it is unlike anything he has heard, almost scary; despite this, when she saved the transformed Demon Slayers, she appeared almost like a goddess, causing them to tear up. Zenitsu adds that Shinobu is very attractive.
Aoi explains the steps in Rehabilitation Training.
However, each time she took Tanjiro and Inosuke to Rehabilitation Training, they would return broken and exhausted, refusing to talk as they went back to bed, which unnerved Zenitsu. Soon, he recovers and joins his friends in rehabilitation. In the Butterfly Mansion's training hall, Aoi introduces Zenitsu to the three steps of his rehabilitation. He will first be stretched by the mansion's three helpers to loosen his muscles. Then comes reflex training where, on a table with cups of medicinal tea, the objective is to splash the opponent with a cup without them doing so in return. Finally is full-body training, which is essentially a game of tag between her and later Kanao.
As Tanjiro and Inosuke bemoan having to train again, Zenitsu only appears shocked. He asks Aoi for a moment and tells Tanjiro and Inosuke to follow him; they are caught off-guard when Zenitsu drags them outside. In the yard, he demands the two "idiot jerks" to listen to him; Inosuke does not take kindly to the insult but is suddenly punched into the wall by Zenitsu. Tanjiro orders him to apologize but Zenitsu instead demands they apologize to him, asking why they act forlorn when they "were actually in heaven".
He is angered by their haggard expressions after spending an entire day with girls; Tanjiro reprimands him but Zenitsu continues by listing the things they get to do, namely touching them during each step of training, before mentioning all the things the girls have that attract him. Inosuke retorts that losing to them is embarrassing but Zenitsu does not pity his failures and believes he has not spent time with girls, to which Inosuke clarifies he has stepped on plenty of them, angering him. Tanjiro notes that for better or worse, the two are now motivated to train, but believes it is wrong to do so with impure motives.
A reinvigorated Inosuke mercilessly beats Aoi.
He and Inosuke watch Zenitsu laughing blissfully during the rigorous stretching procedure. In reflex training, Zenitsu bests Aoi each time but refuses to splash her to be chivalrous, annoying Aoi. In full-body training, he grabs her and is punched in the face, to which Zenitsu remarks that he "won the game, but lost the fight". Inosuke, not one to like losing, mercilessly defeats Aoi by splashing her in the face and grabbing her by the legs, causing Tanjiro to fall behind.
However, despite initial success, all three were unable to beat Kanao in both reflexes and full-body training; Tanjiro notes that despite finishing the same Final Selection as them, she remains far ahead. For five days, Kanao remains unbeaten; it is especially hard on Inosuke with his dislike of losing, and Zenitsu eventually accepted that he was well enough. Both began to skip training; Aoi, despite being annoyed by them not taking training seriously, did not mind and even asked Tanjiro to skip if he wanted too. Though he was motivated to keep trying, ten more fruitless days pass. He tries to understand how she is so different; she is so fast, even if he did recover, Tanjiro remains sure he still wouldn't beat her. Her scent is also different and closer to that of the Hashira, and he notes that she has unique eyes.
His train of thought is interrupted by the girls of the mansion, who give him a towel to dry himself. They ask if he maintains Total Concentration Breathing across the entire day, but he becomes confused. The girls ask again if he uses it morning, noon, and night, even when he sleeps. Tanjiro responds that he doesn't and does not see it as possible; when they tell him it will make the difference, he notes that he even struggles to use it. They inform him that some can do it, such as the Hashira and Kanao, to which Tanjiro thanks them for the idea and promises to try it the next day.
Kiyo explains the gourd training method to Tanjiro.
In his first attempt at maintaining Total Concetration, Tanjiro quickly collapses as the physical toll proves too much; he is startled by a loud sound in his ears and believes his heart will pop from them. Seeing he has not recovered, he recalls the basics from Sakonji; the lungs are essential in breathing and he'll have to improve them to progress. The helpers of the mansion see him hard at work and decide to bring him rice balls and gourds.
While eating, Tanjiro observes the gourd they have brought, which he must blow into. One of them explains that Shinobu instructed Kanao to do the same as training. When he believes them to be an instrument, she instead tells him the objective is to make them burst, who surprises Tanjiro. He taps the gourd and notes the dried texture, to which she adds that as it is harder than normal gourds. Tanjiro is aghast to learn a petite girl like Kanao is capable of such a task, and the girls reveal the gourds Kanao is now able to break, which are as large as them. Both stunned and motivated, Tanjiro promises to try the new training method.
Fifteen days later, while sitting atop the roof of the Butterfly Mansion, Tanjiro remarks that he feels his strength returning; he can run for longer and his lungs are much stronger. During the day, he trains his lungs with fast movements, and at night, he trains by breathing slowly to circulate his oxygen to every part of his body.
Shinobu appears beside Tanjiro.
Sakonji had taught him that meditation improves concentration, but he momentarily loses focus when he imagines Haganezuka, who would understandably be furious to learn his Nichirin sword is broken. Additionally, he may have fought one of the Twelve Kizuki but he failed to take their blood, noting that Tamayo's cat is looking at him disapprovingly. As he attempts to regain concentration, he is met by Shinobu, who is impressed by his dedication to train, whereas Zenitsu and Inosuke are doing something else. Initially blushing at the sight of her, he is put at ease when Shinobu sits beside him and asks if he is lonely training, to which Tanjiro reassures her that once he learns to maintain Total Concentration, he can teach it to Zenitsu and Inosuke.
Tanjiro asking why Shinobu offers to house Tanjiro at her mansion.
She tells him he has a pure heart; when Tanjiro asks why she brought them to her mansion, she replies it is because they learned of Nezuko's true nature and his injuries. Additionally, she hoped to entrust her dream in him; to have demons and humans coexist peacefully. Tanjiro then asks if she is angry, which surprises her; he notes that despite her smile, she always has the scent of anger. Shinobu confirms this, explaining that it began with the death of her elder sister and that her anger has only grown from seeing the continual harm demons cause humans. It is an anger she cannot silence and she adds that the Hashira all feel the same way; even after seeing Nezuko show restraint, the Hashira will not attack her only because of Kagaya's wishes.
Shinobu tells Tanjiro to keep fighting and defending Nezuko.
Shinobu mentions that her sister was kind like him and felt sympathy for demons, even pitying them as she died, while she herself could not feel sympathy to those who kill humans. Despite this, she believes she must carry out her sister's wish, and if there is a way to avoid killing pitiful demons, she must find it without losing the sunny disposition her sister enjoyed in her.  Shinobu remarks she is tired of trying, seeing that demons are irredeemable, always lying to save themselves and killing without reason. As she stands up, the Insect Hashira tells the Demon Slayer to keep fighting and defending Nezuko, and when she believes he is succeeding at her sister's dream, she will be put at ease, before vanishing from view.
Tanjiro breaks the largest training gourd.
Seeing her trust in him, Tanjiro vows to do his best. He instructs the girls of the mansion - Naho, Kiyo, and Sumi - to help him train by beating him with carpet beaters when he fails to maintain Total Concentration when he sleeps, to which they oblige to. That night, while sleeping and breathing, Tanjiro begins to snore, causing the three to beat him awake. Ten days later, while training with the largest gourd, Tanjiro takes a deep breath and blows into it. With the girls' encouragement, he successfully breaks it open, much to their excitement.
In full-body training, Tanjiro chases Kanao and keeps up with her with his improved speed; while still not fully mastering Total Concentration throughout the entire day, it is a sign he is getting close and his body has changed, and he grows excited to swing a Nichirin sword with his new strength. Eventually, he successfully grabs her hand and wins.
Tanjiro defeats Kanao in reflexes training.
Partaking in reflexes training, Tanjiro and Kanao trade blows at incredible speeds, seemingly neck and neck. Unwilling to lose, he perseveres and is able to grab a cup before she can block it, but realizes it would be rude to splash her with its unpleasant smelling contents. Instead, he taps her head with the cup, which Kiyo and Naho notes is still a successful victory. As the girls and Tanjiro celebrate his success, Inosuke and Zenitsu stare in disbelief at his improvement.
Shinobu appears behind Tanjiro to encourage Zenitsu and Inosuke.
Despite just witnessing Tanjiro finally beat Kanao, Zenitsu struggles to find his motivation to train, while Inosuke cannot bear slow progress. He surmises it is due to Tanjiro being far ahead of them, and despite his attempts to teach the two, they cannot perform Total Concentration Constant. Shinobu then appears behind Tanjiro and informs them about what he has mastered; Total Concentration Constant is Total Concentration Breathing performed every minute of every day to improve physical abilities.
She mentions that while it is a basic move, hence Tanjiro's ability to do it, mastering it takes great effort. To this, she pats Inosuke on the shoulder and jabs at his inability to perform the technique. "Anyway, of course you can do it, but if you can't, then that's that." This riles up the boar-headed Demon Slayer and he angrily threatens to hurt her for talking down on him. Shinobu then approaches Zenitsu and grabs his hand, causing him to go insane with bliss as she encourages him to train. The now excited Zenitsu promises to train for her, much to Tanjiro's bewilderment.
Nine days later, both Zenitsu and Inosuke have mastered Total Concentration Constant, thanks to Shinobu's teaching skills and motivation making up for Tanjiro's lack thereof. He then informs his friends that his new Nichirin katana has arrived. informed by a Kasugai Crow. Tanjiro and Inosuke walk outside the mansion, where the former greets the arriving Haganezuka and his companion. However, the smith is unhappy to see him and furiously charges at Tanjiro with a knife, narrowly missing him. He is angered at him breaking his sword, and despite Tanjiro explaining it was during a battle with a powerful opponent, Haganezuka accuses him of being too weak to wield it, claiming his blade would have never broken as such, all while poking his face. The 37 year old swordsmith proceeds to chasing Tanjiro for an hour with his knife.
Haganezuka attempts to stab Tanjiro for breaking his katana.
Inside the mansion, Haganezuka's companion comments on the former's intense passion for his blade, perhaps twice that of a normal smith, and introduces himself as Kanamori. He has forged Inosuke's two new blades; Kanamori and Tanjiro admire Inosuke's weapons, which the swordsmith notes is a faint grey-blue shade. As Tanjiro mentions Inosuke's old weapons were badly chipped, while being punched by Haganezuka, Kanamori asks for Inosuke's input as it was the first time he made weapons for a dual-wielder. Inosuke then walks out onto the yard to find a stone. In front of all, Inosuke begins to chip deep gouges into his new katanas to his liking, causing Kanamori to seethe with intense rage, needing to be held back by Tanjiro from killing "the thank-less brat".
In Tanjiro's room, Zenitsu talks to the sleeping Nezuko whilst she is in her box, speaking about what happened during his training and the hardships he endured whilst getting better. Despite the struggle, he enjoyed being able to do more than ever and he thanks Tanjiro for his encouragement, calling him a good brother. Nezuko responds by scratching her box and Zenitsu realizes he was to take her to the spot where he picked a flower for her. At the same time, Kanamori and Haganezuka unhappily leave the mansion for the night, as Tanjiro bows in apology for their troubles.
An alternate dimension of platforms, stairs, and rooms.
Inside an enormous space of warped staircases and platforms, a biwa-wielding demon strums, causing Lower Rank Six to appear in the space with her. The demon is confused by where he is standing, and as she continues to strum, Lower Six believes the area is her Blood Demon Art. The demons Lower One, Lower Two, Lower Three, and Lower Four appear in the space as well; Lower Six notices it is the first time the Lower Ranks have been summoned together, before seeing that Lower Five has not appeared. Suddenly, the demon's strum brings them all to a platform in front of her and another ornately dressed woman.
The Lower Ranks gathered before Muzan.
As the demons wonder who she is, her familiar voice commands them to bow, causing everyone to immediate crouch and lower their heads to her. Lower Six realizes that Muzan Kibutsuji stands before them, having disguised his appearance and aura to an extremely high-degree. Lower Four attempts to apologize for their misunderstanding but Muzan silences her, telling the Lower Ranks they are to listen to his words only and nothing else. He informs them that Lower Five, Rui, has been killed, and demands to know why the members of the Lower Ranks are so weak.
Muzan explains that their joining of the Twelve Kizuki is only the beginning; it is their job to eat more people to get stronger and become useful to him. While the Upper Ranks have not changed for over a century and are the only ones to have killed the Hashira, their positions continued to change in that same time. Lower Six questions why Muzan expects so much of them, "What are we supposed to say to that?", only for Muzan speaks his exact thoughts out loud. He realizes that Muzan can read their thoughts as the powerful demon orders him to explain why he is now so worried.
The ranks of the Twelve Kizuki.
Within the Twelve Kizuki are two echelons; the Upper Ranks and the Lower Ranks. Numbered from one to six, the order means that Upper Rank One is the strongest member and Lower Rank Six is the weakest. The Upper Ranks have both eyes engraved whilst the Lower Ranks only have one engraved with their position; additionally, the Upper Ranks show disdain towards their inferior peers.
It is revealed that Muzan can read the minds of those he gives blood to, and if he can see them, he can know what they are thinking; even when farther distances causes his mind-reading ability to blur, he is always able to discern where they are. As such, Nezuko being taken to Ubuyashiki Mansion was a detriment to the Demon Slayer Corps as it meant Muzan immediately knew where Kagaya's headquarters was located. However, both she and Tamayo have made the effort to remove his curse from them, something he remains unaware of.
As Muzan hoists Lower Six into the air with a monstrous arm, the now tearful demon repeatedly begs for his master's forgiveness; he refuses and devours the hapless demon whole, spraying his fellow demons in blood. Lower Three is speechless, wondering if he will be killed too and if his efforts to join the Twelve Kizuki will be for nothing, believing he was destined for more. Muzan then asks the Lower Ranks if they are more afraid of the Demon Slayers than of him, causing Lower Four to flinch and refute this. He questions her further by claiming she flees from the Hashira whenever she sees them; she tearfully denies this, claiming she would risk her life for him. Unfortunately, he only sees this as contradicting his words, and Lower Four helplessly watches as his monstrous arm descends to crush and devour her as well.
Muzan beheads Lower Three.
As Lower One observes with curiosity and Lower Two remains shocked, Lower Three realizes this is his end and he will be killed regardless of agreeing or disagreeing with his master. Seeing that he cannot fight him, he leaps into the air in an attempt to escape, leaping down and across multiple platforms in the alternate dimension; Lower One watches him and derides his decision as foolish. The demon attempts to plan his escape but finds himself back in Muzan's hand as a severed head, as Muzan explains that he will kill them all and keep the Upper Ranks alive, shocking Lower Two with his now impending fate; Lower One remains calm and silent.
Lower Three questions how he failed as he did not hear the biwa's strum, as well as seeing that he cannot regenerate. When Muzan asks for any final words from the last two Lower Ranks, Lower Two claims he is still useful to him. Muzan questions how he can prove it with his current strength, to which the demon asks for a portion of his blood, assuring his master that he will acclimate successfully and fight as a stronger demon for him. Tossing Lower Three's head before him, Muzan demands to know how he can impudently ask for his blood, ordering him to know his place. Shocked, Lower Two claims he meant no disrespect, but Muzan silences his frightened pleas and explains he is never wrong; his authority and word is absolute, and for speaking up against him, he will be killed.
Muzan injects Lower One with his blood, pleased by his admiration of him.
Muzan faces Lower Rank One and asks for his final words; Lower Three believes he too will die, realizing their lives all hinged on Muzan's will as he begins to fade to ash. Lower One speaks of his delight in the situation, claiming it was his dream to die by his hand. He was thrilled to hear his peers' deaths, revelling in their suffering and thanking Muzan for saving him last. The demon is suddenly pierced by an enormous spine; his initial smile of pleasure becomes a contorted face of agony as Muzan injects him with blood, pleased by his admiration. Explaining that much blood will be given to him, Muzan notes that while he may die in the process, he will become even stronger by surviving the transfusion.
He orders Lower One to make himself useful by killing a Hashira, and he also adds an incentive; if he can kill a Demon Slayer wearing hanafuda-earrings, he will receive even more blood. With that, the Biwa Demon begins to strum, taking Muzan to the surface of the alternate dimension and transporting Lower One through numerous doors, before releasing the demon in an unknown town. He receives a vision from the blood as it strengthens him, a vision of Tanjiro, and Lower One begins to grow ecstatic at the idea of more blood by killing him and a Hashira.
Shinobu checks up on Tanjiro's jaw.
After concluding a medical check-up for Tanjiro's jaw, Shinobu concludes that he has healed and bids him good luck for the future. Before leaving her office, Tanjiro asks the Insect Hashira if she knows about the Hinokami Kagura. To his surprise, she does not, and when he asks again if she knows about "Fire Breathing" instead, she gives the same answer. After explaining how he came to know about the style, she concludes that since his father likely used the style, he must approach someone who may know more about it. Shinobu mentions that Fire Breathing does not exist but Flame Breathing does; when Tanjiro notes that they seem similar, she is not sure on the specifics but is aware that Fire Breathing and Flame Breathing must never gets their names mixed up.
Tanjiro sees the quarrelsome survivor from his Final Selection, now much taller.
To help him, Shinobu directs his attention towards the Flame Hashira Kyojuro, and suggest sending a message via a Kasugai crow. After leaving her office, Tanjiro walks down the hallway when he hears someone approaching. A tall boy turns the corner, but even as Tanjiro moves aside, he purposely shoves into his shoulder. Initially dismayed, Tanjiro quickly recognizes that he was the same boy from his Final Selection, the quarrelsome individual who struck one of the exam overseers. He is amazed to see how much he has grown and wonders why he is at the Butterfly Mansion, as well as noting his strange scent; Tanjiro calls out to him but is ignored.
Upon hearing that he is leaving, Aoi bids him good luck while noting that she had a pleasant time with him. Tanjiro thanks her passionately, as it was with Aoi's help that he and his friends can fight again. Hearing this, Aoi mentions that unlike him, she is unimportant as she cannot fight; even as a survivor of Final Selection, she attributes it to luck and claims she is too much of a coward to fight demons. Saddened, Tanjiro tries reassuring her by claiming that by helping him, she is a part of him that he can take into battle, something he will keep in mind; this notion surprises her, and as Tanjiro leaves, she continues to look at him with a stunned expression.
After searching the mansion, Tanjiro finds Kanao to explain he is heading out and thank her. She only continues to smile quietly, somewhat surprising Tanjiro. He compliments her great skill as Shinobu's Tsuguko, despite joining the Corps at the same time as him and his friends, but Kanao remains silent with a smile on her face. After a few wordless moments, she takes out a coin, flips it, and talks to him; she tells him that she was only following her master's orders and that his gratitude is unnecessary, before bidding him goodbye. Tanjiro is surprised that she spoke, and as she continues to bid him goodbye, he asks about her coin.
Kanao explains that she tosses it to help her decide on a choice she wasn't given; she flipped it just then to decide whether she should speak to him. After telling him goodbye again, Kanao is asked why she doesn't decide for herself. She clarifies that her decisions don't matter; to her, nothing does, and as such she doesn't need to choose for herself. Tanjiro instead tells her that everything in the world matters; he believes that while following orders is important, so is following the voice in her heart. He then asks for her coin and Kanao reluctantly hands it to him. Tanjiro explains he will flip it to decide if she will begin following the voice in her heart from now on, but he flicks it too hard and it takes several moments to land back down; during this, Kanao grows anxious of the coin's result, as Tanjiro tells her the result to make her listen to her heart is by landing on heads.
Tanjiro advises a stunned Kanao to follow her heart.
Tanjiro catches it and excitedly brings it to her, covering it with his hand. She becomes nervous as she could not see it land due to his back turn to him. He removes his hand to reveal the coin land on heads, and as he leaps into the air with joy, Kanao is shocked. After putting her hand out to get her coin back, Kanao is stunned as Tanjiro takes her hands and reassures her, claiming that the heart is what drives people and hers can get strong too. As he turns to leave, she gets up and asks how the coin had landed on heads, surprising him. Despite the result, Kanao notes that he did not cheat the toss, but to answer this, Tanjiro simply tells her it was by chance; if it had landed on tails, he would have tossed repeatedly until it landed on heads, before telling the Tsuguko to take care.
Kanao observes the coin in her hand and clutches it to her chest for a few moments, until a sudden announcement from behind by Kiyo shocks her into falling face first to the ground.
Inosuke sees a train for the first time.
After a tearful farewell from Kiyo, Sumi, and Naho, including a few tears shed by the boys themselves, Tanjiro, Zenitsu, and Inosuke make their way to a train station. During this, Zenitsu is annoyed that they did not received orders from Shinobu's place; Tanjiro tries explaining that their treatment was finished anyway and they could follow orders more quickly at the location, but the annoyed Demon Slayer claims they could have avoided their saddening goodbye. As they begin to quarrel over their situation, Inosuke looks at a distant train and wonders, "What kinda animal is that?!"
