Kanata reveals dawn is still 90 minutes away.
Staring at the open sky and his surroundings, Tanjiro senses that while they are outside the Infinity Castle, the situation has become more dire. Kiriya realizes that whilst Muzan has been taken to the surface, they are in the middle of a city, far from where was expected. It had been a tug-of-war between Yushiro and Muzan over control of the castle, and while not ideal, he notes that it was an impressive feat that now has Muzan at a disadvantage. He asks Kanata for how much time until dawn arrives, but when she answers that they still have an hour and a half left, Kiriya's eyes widen with the realization that a lengthy battle still remains.
A Kasugai crow announces to the Demon Slayers that the sun will rise in one and a half hours. Hearing this, Tanjiro remarks that they still have a long time ahead of them and wonders on the whereabouts of everyone else. After spotting the shaken Mitsuri, Obanai beside her, and Giyu nearby pulling himself out of the rubble, he attempts to locate Muzan's scent beneath the castle's remains.
Muzan goads the Hashira into pinning him until dawn.
The mountain of debris suddenly erupts into the air as the Demon King reveals himself; now sporting eight blade-tipped whips on his back, he pushes away the rubble as he remarks about their intentions to hold him until dawn. "If you think you can... then go ahead and try!!" Launching his whips and arms, Muzan instigates his final assault against the Demon Slayer Corps by attacking the Hashira first.
Obanai, Mitsuri, and Giyu barely dodge his blows before they respond by attacking him directly, attempting to use Serpent Breathing, Third Form, Love Breathing, Second Form, and Water Breathing, Eighth Form. Obanai's blade weaves into Muzan's neck and begins to cut through him; despite knowing that decapitation won't kill him, Obanai hopes they can at least break up his body and weaken him that way. However, the Hashira stare at the demon in utter surprise as all of their attacks have seemingly missed their mark.
The Demon Slayers sacrifice themselves to shield the Hashira.
Mitsuri questions if they failed to land a hit, but Giyu soon realizes that they have indeed slashed him; it is Muzan who is regenerating as fast as he is cut. Obanai wonders how they will deal with Muzan if they cannot even damage him, just as Muzan prepares to wipe them out in one blow. To their shock, it is the remaining Demon Slayers who are struck instead, using themselves as human shields to protect them and dying in droves as they block Muzan's attacks.
They charge head-on with the goal of protecting the Hashira and anyone with a chance of harming Muzan; out loud, a Demon Slayer asks how many times the Hashira have saved them, believing they would have died long ago without them and pushing his peers to not hold back. The Hashira grow horrified to see them sacrifice themselves in desperate fashion, while Tanjiro attempts to follow behind them for a chance at attacking Muzan. Suddenly, he coughs blood and stumbles to the ground in pain.
Tanjiro succumbs to Muzan's poisonous blood.
In the midst of attacking, Muzan remarks that those who die quickly are lucky to have done so, and those who aren't immediately kill will follow them even if he touches them; he points the Hashiras' attention to Tanjiro nearby; unmoving and with an expression of agony on his face as a tumour-like mass grows over his slashed eye. As Giyu looks on in horror, the demon explains that he has mixed his blood into his attacks. It will not transform humans into demons and instead acts as a poison to induce cellular destruction and eventually death; he boldly declares, "Tanjiro Kamado is dead."
Nezuko suddenly wakes up, to Sakonji's shock.
As Nezuko lies unconscious, she is stirred by a vision of her father asking her to wake up, claiming that Tanjiro is in danger. She suddenly rises up and stares up in shock, much to Sakonji's confusion. Tengen and Shinjuro then hear a loud crash as Nezuko runs away from her room, with Sakonji attempting to chase after her; the former Hashira questions the demon on where she is going, while Suma is shocked to see she has broken down her doors to escape. Shinjuro informs Kiriya about Nezuko fleeing from them and asks for his next orders.
Kiriya panics at the news and cannot find a solution; Muzan cannot be controlling Nezuko because he is unable to, and if Tamayo's medicine had worked, then Sakonji would have been able to stop her. Just as he is about to order Nezuko to be brought back, he feels the hand of his father on his shoulder, allowing Nezuko to do as she pleases and reassuring his son. Kuina asks the Oyakata on who she can send after her, but Kiriya replies that it is no longer necessary. Kanata questions his intentions, as if a demon captures her, they may never get Nezuko back; Kiriya acknowledges this but tearfully answers that their father had told him to let her go.
Guided by her visions of her father, Nezuko runs through the forest, too quickly for Sakonji to keep up. She soon leaps high into the air and plummets down a cliff, landing down into the trees below safely. Unable to see her anymore, Sakonji is astonished and wonders if Tamayo's medicine has failed, as Nezuko continues to run towards the unconscious Tanjiro on the battlefield.
Muzan injures Mitsuri, Giyu, and Obanai.
As Muzan continues to battle the three Hashira, Giyu realizes he must use a sword from a Demon Slayer who used Water Breathing to keep fighting, while Obanai laments that Muzan is too fast for them. The Demon King begins to land his hits, causing deep cuts in Mitsuri's chest, Giyu's arm and leg, and Obanai's face and arm. As he fights, he expresses surprise to see that they can move with their wounds, believing their marks are making them harder to kill. Seeing she was still struck despite Giyu and Obanai defending her, Mitsuri attempts to keep fighting but collapses when the pain from her injuries flare.
Gyomei saves Mitsuri in the nick of time.
As Muzan's arm closes in on her, Obanai yells at her in vain as she asks that he save himself instead. The demon's arm is suddenly destroyed, narrowly saving the Love Hashira; the other Hashira and Muzan watch as the spiked flail that destroyed it returns to its owner, Gyomei. As he apologizes for his lateness, much to Mitsuri's tearful gratitude, Muzan instantly recognizes him as the Demon Slayer who defeated Kokushibo, just as he is sliced down the middle by the accompanying Wind Hashira.
Sanemi then hurls bottles of oil at the demon, who is soaked in the liquid as he slashes them to pieces, allowing the Hashira to set him alight with a match. Muzan taunts him for using dirty tactics, but Sanemi claims it is what he deserves, vengefully promising to kill him. Appearing out of the Infinity Castle's debris, Murata sees Muzan in the distance; he recognizes him as his family's enemy and moves to try and kill him. Giyu suddenly calls out to him and explains that Tanjiro has been downed, asking that he take him to safety and tends to his wounds.
Shocked by this, Murata quickly rushes over to Tanjiro and begins to carry him away from the battlefield; he grows tearful as he realizes that Giyu has still remembered him from when they fought together in Final Selection. Accepting that the Water Hashira has now advanced far ahead of him, he pushes himself to remain useful, as everyone else has fought hard until the end.
The sky then clears to a bright day. Tanjiro wonders if dawn has already arrived but realizes it is impossible; he also notices his inability to smell anything.
At first, Tanjiro believes the house before him is his own but notices differences that make him sure it isn't. Seeing an axe in his hand, he wonders if he had been chopping wood and if his life is flashing before him. He feels a child holding onto his clothes and addressing him as her father; Tanjiro is unsure if the child is his when he then notices she is pointing towards a tree. In the shade, Yoriichi appears and respectfully bows to him, as Tanjiro realizes he is meeting the man who first used breathing techniques.
Murata attempts to resuscitate Tanjiro as Takeuchi appears.
Murata attempts reviving Tanjiro but to no avail; he is not breathing and his heart is not beating, though with Murata's own loud breathing and heart rate, he cannot tell. He is startled when Takeuchi suddenly calls out to him from behind, thankful to see him. He explains that Yushiro is trapped beneath the rubble and he needs his assistance. Unwilling to leave and let Tanjiro die, Murata is at first hesitant to go, but Takeuchi assures him that if they can save Yushiro, he can in turn treat Tanjiro.
Sitting at Sumiyoshi's house, Yoriichi explains that he needed someone to listen to him, and the only people who came to mind were him and Suyako. Tanjiro wonders if he can ask him about the 13th form when he begins speaking; he remarks that it had been 2 years since they last met and he is glad to see he is well. Tanjiro becomes confused but he continues talking, noting that Sumire was still a baby and has grown much since then. He wonders why he cannot say anything on his mind or move as he wants to, but soon realizes he is seeing his ancestor's memories, and thus has no control over it.
Yoriichi is pleased to see his family well, as when people are happy, it makes him happy. He believes the world is a beautiful place where one is blessed to be born in it.
Yoriichi remembers his mother as a kind woman of deep faith.
His mother was a woman of deep faith, who prayed daily for strife to leave the world. She also prayed to the Sun deity to shine on his ears, as he was believed then to be deaf; she also made him hanafuda charms as earrings. He regretted causing her so much worry when he did not speak. His elder brother was a kind boy who was always concerned about him. One particular day, when Yoriichi played with his brother, their disapproving father struck Michikatsu; he later gave him a handmade flute and asked him to blow it whenever he needed him, telling him not to worry and smiling despite his bruise.
Because he was an unwanted child, Yoriichi left his home when his mother died. Initially supposed to become a priest, he ran away and explored the world beneath the night sky. Despite this, his feet did not tire after an entire day of running. When he came to the mountains, he found a small rice paddy and saw a girl standing in it. She was roughly the same age as him and was carrying a bucket as she stood still. Yoriichi asked her what she was doing, and the girl responded to his question. "My family died in a plague. I'm all alone and very lonely. So I came here to find tadpoles to take him."
Yoriichi begins living with Uta.
She continued to stand unmoving, but as the sun began to set, she freed the tadpoles instead. When asked why she let them go, the girl admitted that she felt sorry about separating them from their families. Yoriichi decided to accompany her home, causing her to turn to him; he saw her eyes were like obsidian. Her name was Uta and they decided to live together. Unlike the quiet Yoriichi, Uta could speak from morning until the evening; it was also during this time that Yoriichi learnt that he saw the world differently to other people, as Uta never knew anyone who could see through the bodies of living things. This epiphany allowed him to understand why he felt disconnected from others; it was as if he was a kite with a severed string, but regardless, Uta held onto him.
Ten years later, the two married and it was about the time Uta was to give birth. To prepare, Yoriichi set out to find a midwife and hoped to return before sundown. Along the way, he came across an old man travelling through the mountains alone. Though he had a weak heart, he was attempting to visit his son after he had been killed in battle. Yoriichi carried the man on his back and travelled to his son's location, deciding to summon the midwife tomorrow instead. He hurried home as night fell, but by the time he arrived, someone had killed Uta and their unborn child.
Yoriichi laments the existence of demons and the pain they cause.
As Tanjiro listens to his harrowing story, Yoriichi remarked, "There are those who will not hesitate to trample upon someone whose life is more precious to you than your own." For ten days, he sat in a daze as he held his wife's body, only brought out of his catatonic state when a Demon Slayer arrived. He had been pursuing the demon and encouraged Yoriichi to mourn his family properly. As he buried his family and prayed for them, Yoriichi reminisces on his resolve to keep pushing on past their deaths.
"My dream was to live a quiet life with my family in a small house where we would sleep side by side. I would be close enough to see the beloved faces of my wife and child and close enough to reach out and take their hands. That would have been enough. But even that did not come true. Demons exist in this beautiful world."
The advent of the five fundamental Breathing Styles.
He became a Demon Slayer and learnt that though humanity had always been hunting demons, they did so without using breathing techniques; he subsequently taught them. Within the Demon Slayer Corps, the best amongst them were known as the Hashira, and atop their own swordsmanship skill, learning the Breathing Styles that lead to the advent of Flame, Wind, Water, Thunder, and Stone Breathing allowed them to become even more powerful. The Demon Slayers began killing demons one after another; Yoriichi also adds that after demons had killed his subordinates, Michikatsu too became a Demon Slayer.
Soon after this, Yoriichi encountered the progenitor of all demons as he was accompanied by a girl. The moment they met, Yoriichi understood that he was born with the sole purpose of defeating him.
Upon encountering the progenitor of demons, Yoriichi immediately sensed his violent intent, describing him as an erupting volcano whose boiling magma threatened to consume everything. Muzan only spoke to him about his disinterest in swordsmen who used breathing techniques; the moment he stopped speaking, he suddenly lashed out and tried to kill him with his bladed arms. Yoriichi ducked below the attack and saw his fearsome speed and long reach. As he heard the bamboo splitting and falling behind him, he sensed that even one scratch could kill him and believed it was the first time he felt a chill down his spine.
Yoriichi overpowers Muzan in an instant.
Seeing inside Muzan, he discovered the demon had seven hearts and five brains, and in that moment, he was able to complete his sword forms. In a single attack, he cuts through Muzan's vital organs at once and dismembers his body; hearing this, Tanjiro wonders if the 13th form is part of his completed forms, wishing Yoriichi would teach him.
Muzan looked on with confusion as his body failed to regenerate, holding his head as he tries to reattach it. Yoriichi knew that his bright red blade would work on even the demon progenitor but he needed to know something about him. "What is the value of a life to you?", he asked, but the angered demon only looked to him without speaking. His reddening face made him believe his words didn't reach him. He noticed the demon girl nearby but saw that she wasn't attempting to help him. With eyes wide open, she simply stared at him and waited; it was as if her eyes were shining with a sense of hope.
Muzan's body explodes, as Yoriichi attempts to destroy all of the pieces.
Yoriichi decided to kill the demon progenitor first, but as he steps forth, he heard the sound of teeth grinding. The dismembered body suddenly bursts into hundreds of pieces, and caught off-guard, Yoriichi only managed to destroy slightly more than 1,500 of the 1,800 he saw. What remained was too small to be cut and he estimates that what escaped was enough to make a head-sized lump of flesh. As he stood still, the girl collapsed and began to cry, lamenting that despite Yoriichi's near victory, the demon managed to overcome his decapitation. She tore at her hair as she angrily yelled, "I wish that filthy man died!! Muzan Kibutsuji!!"
She then stopped and looked at herself, wondering why she was not dead. Yoriichi calmed and approached the girl, and she quickly spoke to him about Muzan; he was the demons' progenitor and he was likely to never reveal himself to him again. The girl was relieved to be free of his control due to his weakened state; when Yoriichi asked for her help, she showed initial hesitance but eventually agreed. Her name was Tamayo and he noted that she had sad eyes; Tanjiro is shocked to learn this about Tamayo. Suddenly, he heard from the Demon Slayers running to him that Michikatsu had become a demon.
Yoriichi is banished for failing to kill Muzan, Tamayo, and Michikatsu becoming a demon.
As the angered Hashira admonished him in the Ubuyashiki estate, Yoriichi was confronted by his failure to kill Muzan and Tamayo and Michikatsu's transformation. He was banished, but when some demanded that he commit seppuku as well, their Oyakata did not allow it; Yoriichi was sorry to further burden a six year old who had just lost his father. As Sumiyoshi attempts to reassure him, Yoriichi laments his failure to kill Muzan. "I think... I was born with special strength for the purpose of defeating Muzan Kibutsuji. But I was lacking. In the end, I failed. Because of that many more people will die. And that pains me."
Tanjiro is rendered speechless by Yoriichi's retelling of his life; with so much that had happened to him, he cannot find any words to offer. He hopes that Sumiyoshi would say something, but both merely sat in silence for some time. As he tries to find a way to help his hurt friend, Sumire approaches Yoriichi from behind and asks for a hug. Flustered, Sumiyoshi gently asks if he could carry her, as she enjoys it and he is taller than him, and without speaking, Yoriichi holds Sumire and lifts her up.
Yoriichi hugs Sumire in an emotional breakdown.
The little girl squeals with happiness, causing Yoriichi to break down in tears. Suyako soon returns from gathering chestnuts in the forest, only to see Sumiyoshi standing beside Yoriichi as he tearfully hugs Sumire. Seeing it is her friend, Suyako reassures Yoriichi and invites him inside for a meal, asking him to cheer up. Watching the scene unfold, Tanjiro acknowledges that he is in the middle of a battle and that Yoriichi had died hundreds of years ago.
"But... I can't help but wish that his heart will find even a little peace."
After a series of attacks from Muzan, Gyomei comments on how he appears to be getting faster, so fast that the Mitsuri barely manages to dodge his attacks on pure intuition and luck.
Mitsuri mortally wounded by Muzan's attack.
Mitsuri, before she can land an attack, realizes that she's getting dragged down by one of Muzan's arms. Another attack from him manages to slice some of the Hashira's right cheek off and injure the shoulder of her right arm. Obanai jumps to rescue her, and with the help of Sanemi, Giyu and Gyomei holding Muzan back, he's able to carry her to another Demon Slayer.
He commands him to find Yushiro to treat her injuries and the Slayer agrees. However, Mitsuri insists on keep fighting but Obanai doesn't allow her. As he leaves her, she pleads him to not die.
Obanai, as he's running contemplates the number of people that have died, all because of the existence of demons. At first, wishes that he and Mitsuri had met under normal circumstances, but takes it back saying that he would rather die (after killing Muzan that is) and cleanse himself of the filthy bloodline he carries within him. His bandages, fall behind him as he's running to reveal slits across his cheeks.
His family stole money and lived a luxurious life from it. Obanai was the first male born in the clan in over 370 years and was confined to a cell because of this. He would have died earlier if it wasn't for his heterochromia, as the demon living there (who ate offsprings in return of the humans living there), with the lower body of a serpent, decided that he should grow a more satisfying size before she'd eat him. She was also the one who ordered the other females of the clan to cut the sides of his mouth to resemble her.
Obanai is saved by Shinjuro.
During this, Obanai manages to steal a hairpin and was able to slowly cut away the wooden cage with it and escape, Kaburamaru, strayed inside the cell before their escape. Because of him, the serpent demon killed everyone else in the clan, and tried to kill Obanai but Shinjuro Rengoku, the Flame Hashira at the time cut her head off, saving Obanai and his female cousin, who threw a fit at him.
By becoming a Demon Slayer, he felt as though he became a better person, even if the souls of the dead family members always dragged him down.
Obanai restates that he would like to die by killing Muzan to purify his blood and hopes to meet Mitsuri again in another life without demons if he and her are ever reincarnated into humans, and, if that happens, he'll confess his love to her.
Nezuko Kamado continues to run towards the location of the battle as a group of Kakushi attempt to keep the site of the battle clear of civilians and redirect all approaching people to evacuate, telling them that they are a rescue team sent by the local policemen.
Another group of Kakushi examine the rubble of the buildings destroyed as a result of Muzan Kibutsuji's attack and find that no one had been harmed due to the damage except for a cat trapped in the rubble. They free it and find that it has a bag strapped to it, as it is none other than Tamayo's cat and it immediately runs off to the battle scene with it's cargo in tow.
Over at the fight, Obanai Iguro and Sanemi Shinazugawa battle Muzan at close quarters and Obanai chops off one of Muzan's arms, cleverly kicking it away as he severed it to prevent the Demon from regenerating immediately. Muzan notes this strategy as well but is unconcerned, saying that the extra time the Demon Slayer has bought is but a blink.
Muzan attacks Obanai with his whip and the Hashira rues all the energy he is having to waste just to avoid the mouths on the whips. He assuredly thinks that he will only allow himself to faint one second after dawn as every second is precious and had been bought for them with the very lives of all the members of the Demon Slayer Corps.
Obanai and Gyomei deflecting Muzan's attacks, thus saving Giyu's life.
Giyu Tomioka begins to weaken as a result of the venom he has received from all of Muzan's attacks and his sword is whipped away from him by a whip. Both Obanai and Gyomei Himejima intervene and slice it, with Sanemi grabbing his sword and throwing it near the Water Hashira and yells at him to focus and or else he will kill him. Giyu gratefully grabs the sword and performs the Water Breathing, Third Form: Flowing Dance resolving not to back down and to keep fighting till the very end.
Muzan admits that they are more resilient than he had expected but is unconcerned as it is only a matter of time before his venom kills them all, long before dawn. The Hashira continue to struggle against Muzan as the poison continues to weaken them until suddenly Tamayo's cat jumps onto the scene and ejects it's cargo: vials of antidotes to Muzan's poison. It manages to fire all the vials at the Hashira and they immediately begin to inject the antidote into them as Muzan slices the cat into pieces.
Chachamaru delivers the antidotes.
Sanemi smiles as he notices his tumors vanish and Gyomei also notices his own frenzied pulse and constant pain vanish and the Hashira are able to fight with more ease again which Sanemi is thankful for. Gyomei notes that it is possibly just a temporary cure for the symptoms but that they are fortunate for such an event to occur. Muzan quickly deduces what had happened and realises it was Tamayo's doing, cursing her for being a thorn in his side even in death. With immense fury, he launches a frenzied attack that creates multiple craters in the landscape ahead of him.
Obanai's blade turns bright red as his Demon Slayer Mark appears.
The Hashira all barely manage to dodge the attacks as Obanai wistfully thinks to himself how his contribution has been the lowest, wishing he could land more crucial blows. Thinking that when one's life is in danger one is able to exert explosive strength, he reflects back on how before he had never lifted anything heavier than a pair of chopsticks and his biggest task was escaping a prison cell.
He could not believe it himself when he had successfully done so and thinks to what Muichiro Tokito did in his final battle against Kokushibo by changing the color of his sword and that according to the crows all he would have been able to do was grip his sword tightly.
Saying he had been shocked when he heard about it and at first believed it had changed color due to a rise in temperature. However, now he realised that to obtain a bright red blade he would have to grip his sword with all his might and Obanai grits his teeth as he puts all his strength into gripping his sword and it begins to turn bright red.
Obanai Iguro reflects on how upon seeing the bright red blade he also started to see stars in his peripheral vision and realized he had made a mistake. Recognizing that he had been too fixated on tightening his grip on his sword and gaining the bright red blade that he had been close to passing out due to lack of oxygen.
He is brought back to earth with a yell from Sanemi Shinazugawa who warns him to watch out as Muzan Kibutsuji has launched an attack his way. Noting that if even one of them falls it will increase the burden on the others Obanai tries to stand up and fight, willing himself to make up for Mitsuri Kanroji's absence as well.
Giyu seeing Obanai in mid-air having successfully dodged Muzan's attack.
However, he has lost sensation in all parts of his body except for his sword hand. Giyu Tomioka attempts to intercept Muzan's attack but he isn't able to outpace the Demon's blow. Suddenly, he looks up and sees Obanai up in the air having successfully dodged the attack.
Muzan unveils his invisible attackers
Muzan sees this and attempts to attack him in midair but is shocked to see the Serpent Hashira dodge it easily again. Further surprised at his right arm and whips being cut off seemingly from nowhere, Muzan notices that it is an odd kind of cut that could not have been made by the weapons of those he is fighting.
Forcibly regrowing his severed limb with a delay, Muzan then resumes his attack to stop Gyomei Himejima and Sanemi from getting in too close on him. He is further surprised as his left arm is chopped off as a result of a similarly mysterious cut, Muzan deduces that it has to be from a blade with jagged edges and realizes that someone else is present who is also aiming to destroy him.
Obanai shocks Muzan and cuts off his arms.
Quickly assessing this new threat, Muzan analyzes his surroundings, saying that even if a spell from Tamayo's Demon could make someone invisible, it couldn't erase traces of their existence. Though he is unable to see any silhouettes through the dust clouds Muzan is still able to hear the air parting in some areas. Deducing that there are three hidden attackers around him he slices at their approximate locations and is able to land a hit on all three of them.
Inosuke Hashibira, Kanao Tsuyuri and Zenitsu Agatsuma suddenly pop into view as some seals placed on their heads get sliced off by Muzan's attacks. They are taken aback at how quickly he was able to find them out but Gyomei is pleasantly surprised to notice them all still alive as Inosuke boasts he wouldn't die and that he had plenty of seals to spare.
The Hashira turn their blades bright red.
Muzan unceremoniously interrupts Inosuke's monologue and swipes at him with a whip but his attention is drawn back to himself mid-attack as Obanai slices off both of his arms. He is displeased at the time it takes his arms to regrow from these attacks by a bright red blade and Sanemi is heartened as he notes this fact to his companions.
Kanao and Zenitsu hurriedly put on new seals and attack Muzan with Flower Breathing, Fourth Form: Crimson Hanagoromo and Thunder Breathing, First Form: Thunderclap and Flash. Enraged, Muzan calls them a bunch of pesky flies, saying they have nothing but pitiful tricks but is interrupted by Obanai who attacks him with the Serpent Breathing, Third Form: Coil Choke.
Gyomei thinks to himself that this addition to their numbers and Obanai manifesting a bright red blade has helped them and it also allows him to concentrate more. The Stone Hashira clangs his weapons together and upon impact both of them change color to bright red before swinging at Muzan and knocking off his entire left shoulder, exposing his spine.
The Demon pauses and Sanemi yells Giyu to prepare himself as he swings his blade at Giyu's, turning both of their weapons bright red as well. A crow arrives overhead and announces that dawn will break in one hour and three minutes and Sanemi declares that there is no problem as they will chop Muzan into pieces.
Yushiro injects Tanjiro Kamado multiple times with the antidote to Muzan's poison made by Tamayo to try and rejuvenate him, as the Demon Slayers around him ask if injecting Tanjiro so many times is safe for him. He quietens them and says that his condition since it's been some time since Muzan struck him.
The Demon Slayers try to free Tanjiro's katana from his hands but fail as he has a very tight grip on it, Yushiro takes this as a sign that Tanjiro still has the will to fight and suddenly the Demon Slayer holding Tanjiro's head yells out saying that he felt his pulse return.
Yushiro, Murata and Takeuchi attempting to wake Tanjiro up
They attempt to wake him up and when one of them mentions that Muzan might get away they are all taken aback as Tanjiro's katana begins to creak as his grip on it tightens considerably and he jolts back to consciousness.
The Hashira are knocked unconscious.
Back at the fight with Muzan, a Kakushi hidden out of sight peers over to see how things are faring and gets hope that they might hold out until dawn. Gyomei Himejima cleaves off the left half of Muzan's torso as Sanemi Shinazugawa rushes over to a pile of seals on the ground and puts one on his forehead.
As soon as he puts it on he is able to see Kanao Tsuyuri, Zenitsu Agatsuma and Inosuke Hashibira as the latter declares he wants a bright red blade like the Hashira as well, Sanemi launches the Wind Breathing, Seventh Form: Gale, Sudden Gusts towards Muzan.
Tanjiro saves Kanao with the Hinokami Kagura: Beneficent Radiance.
Gyomei is relieved at the arrival of the new fighters as that allowed him to concentrate more, looking into the Transparent World, he sees that Muzan has multiple hearts and brains and thus will not die if they chop off his head, he also notes that they move around inside his body making it difficult to strike them.
An idea suddenly strikes him, believing that if the others could also see Muzan in the transparent world then they would be able to strike the organs simultaneously and destroy Muzan for good. He calls out to the others to look closely at Muzan's body and see if their vision changes and if they can see through him, for an instant Obanai Iguro is able to do so and is shocked at the phenomenon.
"It's hard to tell which one of us is the Demon."
He doesn't have long to ponder on this however, as Muzan launches a devastating attack in all directions and crushes everything around him, flinging everyone into their surroundings. The hidden Kakushi is shocked at the sound and looks over again to see what had happened and is dumbfounded as he sees Muzan standing on his own and the surrounding area having sustained heavy damage.
Looking right next to him he is even more baffled as he sees Gyomei knocked into the building he is hiding behind and that he has lost a leg. His horror only grows as he sees that Sanemi has been flung into the upper storey of a tall building while Obanai, Zenitsu and Inosuke are all unconscious in the rubble and Giyu Tomioka's sword arm has been severed.
Kanao's sword is snapped in two as her seal falls off her and she falls to her knees with Muzan right in front of her. She attempts to urge herself to stand up and attack him however she can only stare transfixed at him in fear and shock. The Kakushi rushes from his hiding to place towards her as Muzan begins to attack but is interrupted by Tanjiro performing the Hinokami Kagura: Beneficent Radiance and cuts off Muzan's arm with it as the remaining stump of flesh on him sizzles.
Muzan looks at it in concern as it does not regrow immediately as Tanjiro apologises to Kanao for being late. Handing her off to the Kakushi he turns to face Muzan who says that the boy looks positively awful and taunts him by saying that in his current condition it is difficult to tell just who the Demon is between the two of them. As he gazes at the boy Muzan is reminded of Yoriichi Tsugikuni and says he makes his skin crawl and Tanjiro challenges Muzan, saying they should finish it.
Yoriichi performs Sun Breathing: Thirteenth Form at Suyako's request.
Tanjiro Kamado thinks on how his understanding changed drastically after seeing the proper forms of the Hinokami Kagura with his own eyes. Saying he noticed wasted movement in the variation of the angle of his wrist, differences in footwork and the interval between breaths. He said that Yoriichi Tsugikuni was a quiet and simple person and when Suyako Kamado asked him to show her the different sword forms he obliged.
Sumiyoshi Kamado made sure to memorize all of them, searing them into his memory, left breathless at the beauty of the movements. When he finished demonstrating, Suyako and the children were overflowing with excitement and Yoriichi bowed his head in embarrassment.
Yoriichi's smile.
Sumiyoshi asked Yoriichi to come back someday but when they parted the Demon Slayer gave his hanafuda earrings to Sumiyoshi who realised that this meant he would never see his friend again. This brought tears to his eyes and he yelled out to Yoriichi as he left that they were grateful to him for saving their lives and they would continue on his legacy.
Shouting that Yoriichi's life was not without value and that he shouldn't feel as if he hadn't accomplished anything, Sumiyoshi said he would pass down the Sun Breathing and the earrings to his future generations. Hearing all this, Yoriichi turns around and thanks Sumiyoshi with a beaming smile.
In the present, Tanjiro stands in front of Muzan Kibutsuji and thanks Yoriichi for his actions. Including sparing Tamayo whose own works had aided the Demon Slayers in fighting the Demon and for showing his Sun Breathing with which Tanjiro could assuredly defeat Muzan. He thinks to himself at how he had pondered over what the Thirteenth Form could be and how he had noticed both the First Form and the Twelfth Form had similar names, recalling that his father had told him that if he learned to breathe properly then he would be able to dance forever.
Saying that his suspicions had been confirmed when he saw Muzan's current state that performing all Twelve forms sequentially would complete a ring that would result in the Thirteenth Form. Tanjiro plans to attack Muzan by connecting all the forms together and continue to strike his brains and hearts until dawn.
Tanjiro's resemblance to Yoriichi angers Muzan.
Realising the gravity of his task, Tanjiro understands how someone such as the Flame Hashira who spoke with Yoriichi about his fight with Muzan could lose confidence. Believing that he doesn't have Yoriichi's or even his own father's skill and unsure on how he would prevent Muzan from escaping as he did against Yoriichi he asks how he can do something even the great Sun Breather couldn't. Steeling himself Tanjiro resolves to try his best, rallying himself to keep his heart burning he charges at Muzan who begins to rapidly attack him as he uses the Sun Breathing.
Seeing Tanjiro's attacks reminds Muzan of Yoriichi and he cries out that he is a ghost. He slashes around so violently that the ground around them cracks into pieces and he lands a hit on Tanjiro who is pushed back. Meanwhile Tanjiro notices how Muzan had been able to defeat everyone else, he had nine whips growing out from his back in addition to his two arms and he also had eight even faster whips that grew out of his thighs, realizing that since the Demon could change shape he needs to stop thinking of Muzan as having a fixed form to avoid being taken by surprise.
Tanjiro commences Sun Breathing: Thirteenth Form against Muzan.
Tanjiro attempts to combine all the forms to perform the Thirteenth Form by using the Sun Breathing: Dance and Raging Sun but is thwarted midway during Fire Wheel and is pushed back yet again. Unfazed, Tanjiro says he will connect all the forms as that's how they were designed to be and resolves to succeed.
Muzan Kibutsuji notes he is well aware that living creatures are able to tap into reserves of strength unbeknownst to them to escape death and looks on to see Tanjiro Kamado doing the same in his attempt to connect all twelve Forms of the Sun Breathing. He sees that Tanjiro has turned his blade bright red as well, just as the other Hashira had but is unconcerned as he says that the young Demon Slayer's attacks are nowhere near as powerful as those of Yoriichi Tsugikuni.
Tanjiro successfully connects six forms of the Sun Breathing.
As the young Demon Slayer connects the Sun Breathing: Dragon Sun Halo Head Dance and Fire Wheel, he successfully manages to connect six of the Forms, however, he notes that Muzan's organs keep moving within his body and that the Demon's attacks prevent him from attacking his torso. Beginning to feel fatigued, Tanjiro heaves and slows down but he keeps telling himself to focus on one second while connecting the Sun Breathing: Fake Rainbow and Burning Bones, Summer Sun.
Muzan notices Tanjiro's attacks begin to lose their accuracy and surmises that he will soon lose his red blade as well, saying that he is yet another swordsman who would never live up to Yoriichi nor reproduce the terrifying technique the old swordsman had used against him.
Tamayo reveals the poison has another effect.
Launching another attack towards Tanjiro, Muzan manages to connect and knock the boy back. Tanjiro coughs up blood as Muzan whips at him again, barely managing to evade it. Swiftly regaining his footing, Tanjiro resumes his task of connecting together all the forms of Sun Breathing. This puzzles Muzan as he wonders why he is struggling so much against one weak and wounded human being, who is growing weaker by the second.
Deducing that he himself is also growing slower as a one-on-one fight would have never lasted so long, Muzan suspects it is an aftereffect of the antidote injected into him by Tamayo. Resolving to ask her himself as he had absorbed her cells, Muzan seeks out her remaining presence in his subconscious.
Shinobu suggesting Tamayo to make a second drug.
Finding the remnants of the Demon within him as a severed head, Muzan holds it in his palm and asks her what she had done as he believed the drug only made Demons human again. Tamayo's head reaffirms this, but she smiles evilly and says that she won't tell him what else it does, as that would be something his multiple brains should figure out.
Enraged, Muzan crushes the remnants of Tamayo's head with his hand and tries an alternative method to figure out what had been done to him by reading the memories lying in her remaining cells. Delving through her memories, Muzan finds one of her in her lab with Yushiro and Shinobu Kocho. Recognizing Shinobu as the poison user who had fought Doma, Muzan watches as she suggested that they mix in two poisons instead of one under the assumption that he could withstand one of them, with the first poison being the antidote to turn Demons into humans and the second one being an aging potion Tamayo had concocted to make its victims older by 50 years every minute.
Tanjiro begins connecting all of the Sun Breathing forms.
Suddenly realising that he had been struggling against the Hashira and Tanjiro because his body had been diverting strength to combat his aging, Muzan attempts to calculate how much he had aged. Noting that it had been almost five hours since Tamayo had injected him with the drug and that the aging potion had only begun to take effect three hours ago, Muzan is shocked as he realizes he had aged by 9,000 years over the whole battle. Recognizing he should have noticed this earlier when the color had not returned to his hair, Muzan jerks his head to the side as he hears a crow announce that there are 59 minutes till dawn.
Tanjiro connects all the forms of  Sun Breathing.
Tanjiro keeps continuing by using the Sun Breathing: Solar Heat Haze, Beneficent Radiance, Clear Blue Sky, Fire Wheel, Raging Sun and Flame Dance. Yelling at Tanjiro to stop jumping around, Muzan attempts to attack the young Demon Slayer again with renewed ferocity, but Tanjiro dodges his attack with the Sun Breathing: Fake Rainbow, and follows that up with Dance, Setting Sun Transformation, Burning Bones, Summer Sun, Dragon Sun Halo Head Dance and the Sunflower Thrust, with that he has successfully connected all 12 forms of the Sun Breathing. With renewed hope, he determines to keep doing so until daybreak, with even greater speed and accuracy.
Yushiro and some Demon Slayers make their way towards Chachamaru's mangled body and the demon reattaches the cat's head to it's body, cradling it in his arms as it recovers. The accompanying Demon Slayers are taken aback at this and ask Yushiro if Chachamaru is also a Demon and he replies in the affirmative, saying he had turned it into a Demon shortly before the battle.
Yushiro snaps at the pair to stop dawdling and tend to the injured. They run off with vials of Tamayo's anti-Muzan serum and get to Inosuke Hashibira, Kanao Tsuyuri and Zenitsu Agatsuma.
Walking over to Gyomei Himejima, Yushiro assesses the damage on the Hashira and notes that he has lost a lot of blood in addition to his leg. Tying up the wound to stem the bleeding, Yushiro begins to worry as he declares that Gyomei is in no position to fight even if he does regain consciousness in time as the blood loss and lack of equilibrium will hinder him too much. With over 50 minutes left till sunrise, he thinks of Tamayo and asks her to help Tanjiro Kamado in his battle with Muzan Kibutsuji, saying there is no way the boy can last on his own.
Meanwhile Tanjiro continues to connect the different forms of the Sun Breathing to defeat Muzan. As he matches blows with the Demon his left sleeve is ripped off and he dodges back to avoid the attacks. Seeing that it is not enough to merely connect the forms, Tanjiro realizes he must accurately target all of Muzan's hearts and brains to effectively use the Thirteenth Form, however just as he attempts to see through Muzan to be able to do so he almost blacks out due to lack of oxygen.
Shocked at this, Tanjiro quickly attempts to regain his bearings and sniff Muzan out instead but slips and is almost done in by an attack from the Demon before Obanai Iguro intervenes and scoops him out of harm's way. Deftly dodging all of Muzan's attacks, Obanai successfully carries Tanjiro out of danger with the Demon left angrily exclaiming at their dogged resistance, asking why they just wouldn't die. Tanjiro's vision clears up and he is able to see his rescuer and he is overjoyed to recognize the striped haori of Obanai.
Tanjiro sees Obanai's scarred face.
This quickly transforms into horror as he sees the Serpent Hashira's face has been mutilated with slashes across his face and through his eyes. Mortified, Tanjiro asks if Obanai was injured while saving him but the Hashira hastily explains that it was during Muzan's attack from before which had knocked out all the Hashira. Continuing to dodge attacks from Muzan, Obanai tells Tanjiro to quit worrying about others as the boy offers to help out and says the vision impairment will not affect him greatly as one of his eyes had always been weak and that he has his snake Kaburamaru.
Confirming that Tanjiro has recovered, Obanai lets go of the boy and quickly engages in battle with Muzan, who had jumped towards them with great fury and tackles him one on one, to Tanjiro's shock. With Kaburamaru's aid Obanai dodges all of the Demon's attacks as the surrounding building is destroyed and Tanjiro rushes to use Sun Breathing again to help split Muzan's attention.
Muzan notices that the snake is relaying information to Obanai which is allowing the Hashira to dodge his attacks and is infuriated that such a simple animal is able to read through his attacks. Tanjiro and Obanai match Muzan's attacks in tandem and the Demon is further annoyed at being unable to kill such seriously wounded humans, realizing that it is due to the aging potion.
Continuing to evade Muzan's blows, Tanjiro sees that the Demon has gradually gotten weaker but is also barely hanging on himself, trying his best to avoid oxygen deprivation. Resolving to help Obanai who has helped him so much already Tanjiro is suddenly shocked to see Muzan's body begin to change as old scars appear all over it. Realizing that these were the wounds Yoriichi Tsugikuni gave Muzan so long ago which the Demon was never able to recover from. Seeing that the Demon had been burnt at the cellular level and that the wounds were his weak spots, Tanjiro says that Yoriichi was still showing them the way.
Muzan Kibutsuji reminisces over when he first saw Yoriichi Tsugikuni, recalling how he had first thought the swordsman to be weak as he exuded no drive or desire to fight Muzan or any hatred towards him. He had never expected Yoriichi would be able to cut off his head or wound him in such a way that his body right down to his cells would continue to hurt as if being hit with sunlight. Continuing, Muzan says it was entirely out of the blue and no one could have expected it and that Yoriichi had been the real monster instead of him.
Tanjiro Kamado rallies himself to take advantage of Muzan's growing exhaustion and newfound weak spots. Noticing that the scars were all moving across the Demon's body, Tanjiro concludes that they all mark his hearts and brains and now even though he cannot see through Muzan anymore due to lack of oxygen, he can still locate his organs and target them.
Trying to figure out a way to help Obanai Iguro overcome his visual impairment, Tanjiro decides to give the Hashira one of Yushiro's seals and suddenly a crow announces that there are 40 minutes left until dawn.
Upon hearing this, Muzan immediately dashes away leaving the battle, in an attempt to secure himself away from sunlight. Tanjiro quickly yells this out to Obanai who remembers that Muzan is not like a human who would act on emotion and that he would cling to his life first and foremost.
Tanjiro and Obanai continue to engage Muzan.
Muzan begins to further the distance between himself and the Demon Slayers, much to Tanjiro's frustration and suddenly passes through a crowd of Demon Slayer corpses, trampling on them in his way. This infuriates Tanjiro who reaches the corpses and begins throwing all their swords straight at Muzan who quickly slices through all of them, with great concern as piercing attacks would be far worse for him than slashes in his current state.
Nezuko arrives on the scene.
The Demon comes to an abrupt halt as Obanai drops from above and stabs him through the top of his chest, jumping away just before Muzan's whips can swipe at him. Tanjiro slices at the whips with Sun Breathing to ensure Obanai's safety but has to throw away Yushiro's seals while defending from Muzan's ferocious attacks. He yells at Obanai to jump to his right to grab them but is relieved as Kaburamaru snatches them out of the air and Obanai takes them from him and wears one.
Being able to see far better than before, Obanai begins to more effectively attack Muzan who begins to pant. Realizing that his strength will soon give way, Muzan begins to become truly concerned as far away Nezuko Kamado reaches the outskirts of the town where the battle is ongoing with one of her eyes having gone back to the way they were when she was human.
Nezuko Kamado slowly makes her way panting towards the town where the battle with Muzan Kibutsuji is underway. Suddenly she flashes back to her memory of Muzan's attack on the Kamado family.
After he had attacked all the members of the family and seen that they had all apparently died due to his attacks, the Demon notes that even with the small dose of his blood he had kept in his attacks none of them had been able to become Demons. Saying that it would be difficult for him to make a Demon who could withstand the sun, Muzan left the Kamado house, unaware that Nezuko had survived.
More memories flood Nezuko's mind as she sees visions of the people and events she and her brother Tanjiro Kamado had encountered during their journey, including Giyu Tomioka gazing at the siblings after sparing Nezuko's life, Sakonji Urokodaki about to give her a headpat, Tamayo and Yushiro during their rendezvous in Asakusa, a lovestruck Zenitsu Agatsuma gifting her flowers, and Inosuke Hashibira gifting her several acorns. She collapses to the ground, unable to keep walking and more memories flash through her brain; of the Hashira Meeting and Sanemi Shinazugawa attempting to lure her into attacking him for his blood and of Kagaya Ubuyashiki and the Hashira watching on.
She remembers her time at the Butterfly Mansion and meeting it's residents, including Shinobu Kocho who during her stay once offered to give her a closer look at the goldfish next to her. Nezuko thinks back to their adventures with Kyojuro Rengoku, Tengen Uzui and his wives after defeating Upper Rank Six, and their time at the Swordsmith Village; meeting it's residents as well as the smiling faces of Genya Shinazugawa and Muichiro Tokito.
Nezuko seeing Tanjiro reach out to her.
Finding her footing, Nezuko stands up, with her hand transforming back to a human hand as she gets up. With another memory of her brother's hand, as he told her that he would save her no matter what, Nezuko holds her head, sweating and grunting profusely and she turns back into a human, declaring that she is Nezuko Kamado, whose family was killed by a demon.
Nezuko becomes human again.
Meanwhile, the battle with Muzan rages on as the Demon rues the fact that he has still been unable to finish off Tanjiro. Sensing that the other Hashira are slowly reviving, Muzan curses the Demon Slayer Corps, saying that they are like the linked beads of a rosary which had always been there trying to end him.
A crow announces that there are thirty five minutes left till dawn and upon hearing this, he attempts to split himself into several pieces the way he had done in his fight with Yoriichi Tsugikuni. Tanjiro recognizes this technique and realizes what Muzan is about to do, calling out to Obanai Iguro, telling him Muzan's plan, secretly worried that if the Demon successfully managed to split himself then they would be unable to stop him.
However, Muzan finds that he is unable to do so and quickly realizes that this is yet another side effect of Tamayo's medicine. He is shocked yet again, however, as he suddenly coughs up blood and Tamayo tells him that there were four ingredients to the medicine and that when the first three had weakened him, the fourth would take effect. The fourth effect being the destruction of Muzan's cells, with Tamayo saying in Muzan's head with an eerily menacing grin that the death he had hated so much throughout his life was now terrifyingly near.
The apparition of Tamayo inside Muzan Kibutsuji's head tells him that there is no need for them to be stronger than him to kill him. She says that just as he would do anything to survive, then they who had suffered at his hands would do anything to kill him.
Muzan notes that in regular circumstances he would not be concerned at the bright red blades of Demon Slayers as they were all weaker than the bright red blade of Yoriichi Tsugikuni and that regeneration would not be so exhausting for him.
He curses the medicines injected into him by Tamayo as they had now rendered him susceptible to such exhaustion and made the attacks of the Demon Slayers far more potent than they normally would be. Realizing that it is different from the poison used on Doma, Muzan notes that it would take some time for him to analyze the compound and counteract it.
Suddenly, he seizes up and stands still with his head looking at the sky and for a moment Tanjiro Kamado believes that the Demon has finally started to get exhausted and that Tamayo's medicine was beginning to take it's toll on him. Both he and Obanai Iguro attempt to capitalize on this opportunity and attack Muzan but a giant shockwave with lightning erupts out of the Demon's body and strikes everything in close vicinity to Muzan.
Muzan unleashes his Shockwave Energy Blast against Tanjiro and Obanai.
Huge jaws erupt from Muzan's torso and run along ut diagonally to his back as he bares his fangs and glares at the destruction he has caused. With Tanjiro and Obanai left stunned and unable to move and Tanjiro experiencing seizures, meanwhile Kiriya, Kanata and Kuina Ubuyashiki also receive damage from the attack due to the Kasugai Crow being instantly killed in the blast and Tengen Uzui and Shinjuro Rengoku rush to their aid.
Bleeding from his nose, Kiriya hastily says that he is fine and asks if Tanjiro and Obanai are doing alright as Shinjuro wonders if Muzan somehow sensed their location to be able to cause damage. Kuina announces that there are twenty five minutes left until dawn and Kiriya asks for the Demon Slayers to hang in there and that a final victory over Muzan was within their grasp.
Inosuke faces Muzan.
Tanjiro is still unable to get up and wonders if his lungs were damaged in the attack, seeing Muzan walk away in anguish. However the Demon stops in his tracks as Inosuke Hashibira jumps in front of him with his Beast Breathing, Fourth Fang: Slice 'n' Dice, saying that Muzan had really done it now and that he wouldn't stand for it any longer. Enraged, Muzan attacks Inosuke with Tanjiro calling out for him but is only able to weakly flail his whips about.
Panting, Muzan realizes that he has become too tired after using the shockwave as Inosuke, huffing and wheezing himself, says that Gyomei Himejima had lost his leg trying to protect them and that Giyu Tomioka had lost his arm. Continuing, he tells the Demon that he had taken the lives of other Demon Slayers he had shared meals with and Inosuke demands that he give them all their lives back and tearfully says that if he couldn't then he would pay for it with a million deaths.
Muzan launches an attack at Inosuke who manages to jump out of the way but just as he lands, Muzan sends his right arm whips into the ground to catch Inosuke from below, managing to ensnare the young Demon Slayer. Tanjiro attempts to get up and help his friend but is unable to and says that he will die first. Suddenly, Inosuke is saved by Zenitsu Agatsuma who slices through Muzan's arm whip and says that Tanjiro is still alive as he can hear his heartbeat.
Yelling at Tanjiro to continue fighting and to stay alive, Zenitsu tries to bolster his spirits and tell him not to die so that Nezuko Kamado could become human again and they could go back to the house they used to live in. Muzan smacks Zenitsu into a building but Inosuke quickly slices at his whip to prevent further damage. The Demon is infuriated and attacks Inosuke as well with Tanjiro desperate to help his friends through this fight.
Positing that it could be a Blood Demon Art affecting his nervous system, Tanjiro attempts to undo it by stabbing himself in a non-vital area with his Nichirin Sword. The blade sizzles as it enters his body and Tanjiro prays that it stops the shaking enough for him to help out in the fight.
A disheveled looking Muzan looks on as Zenitsu and Inosuke recover and notes that he is unable to raise his arms anymore as both Giyu Tomioka and Gyomei Himejima make their way to the battlefield to resume their fight with him, stopping at nothing to finally kill Muzan once and for all.
Everyone prays for the success of those fighting Muzan Kibutsuji as Inosuke Hashibira and Zenitsu Agatsuma continue to attempt to hold the Demon back. Inosuke performs his Beast Breathing, Fourth Fang: Slice 'n' Dice to chop off some of Muzan's whips as Zenitsu follows it up with a Thunder Breathing, First Form: Thunderclap and Flash, Godspeed.
Zenitsu notes that he is losing his strength and he would only be able to muster one more attack with his full strength and unleashes a Thunder Breathing, Seventh Form: Honoikazuchi no Kami but it only produces a shallow cut in Muzan.
Seeing that only a Bright Red Blade could deal sufficient damage to Muzan, Zenitsu falls to the ground and Muzan slashes at him. Inosuke intercepts this attack with his Beast Breathing, Fifth Fang: Crazy Cutting, following it up with his Third Fang: Devour in rapid succession.
Tanjiro saves Inosuke from Muzan.
Muzan is enraged and unleashes a weaker shockwave from the mouth on his torso that flings Inosuke back. Before Muzan is able to do anything else however, Tanjiro Kamado intervenes and performs the Sun Breathing: Burning Bones, Summer Sun and rapidly performing Raging Sun, Fire Wheel, Beneficent Radiance and Sun Halo Dragon Head Dance.
Noting that Muzan needs to allow his shockwaves to charge before using them, Tanjiro attempts to use a Solar but coughs up blood before he can attack and is bailed out from Muzan's counterattack by Inosuke who uses a Beast Breathing, Sixth Fang: Palisade Bite. This allows Tanjiro to unleash the Sun Breathing: Dance, Clear Blue Sky and Fake Rainbow.
Tanjiro and Zenitsu aid each other against Muzan.
Zenitsu remembers his mentor Jigoro Kuwajima and asks him to give him the kick he needs. Performing another Thunder Breathing, First Form: Thunderclap and Flash Zenitsu attacks Muzan but is aggravated by the fact that he is too slow as Inosuke and Tanjiro continue their combined onslaught on Muzan with their respective Sun Breathing: Dance and Beast Breathing, Fifth Fang: Crazy Cutting. Inosuke gets knocked back but Tanjiro is able to continue attacking Muzan with the Sun Breathing: Setting Sun Transformation and Sun Halo Dragon Head Dance, with some help from Zenitsu who takes a blow intended for Tanjiro to allow his friend to continue attacking.
Muzan splits his head in half.
Tanjiro manages to use successive forms of the Sun Breathing: Sun Halo Dragon Head Dance and Raging Sun to pin Muzan to a wall with the Sun Breathing: Sunflower Thrust. He is unable to perform more techniques as the mouth on Muzan's chest attempts to take his blade. Suddenly, Mitsuri Kanroji grabs Muzan's left arm and rips it clean off his body in anger sacrificing her own arms in the process. Sanemi Shinazugawa appears and quickly chops off Muzan's right arm as well with the Wind Breathing, Eighth Form: Primary Gale Slash.
Undeterred, Muzan opens his mouth wide, going from his torso to the top of his head and attempts to eat Tanjiro with it. However, Obanai Iguro steps in and takes the bite instead, protecting Tanjiro as dawn begins to break.
The sun begins to rise and Muzan Kibutsuji is horrified at the sight of it. He unleashes another shockwave and blows Obanai Iguro and Sanemi Shinazugawa away, however, Tanjiro Kamado holds on but loses his left arm.
Tanjiro loses his arm.
Resolving to keep holding Muzan down, Tanjiro attempts to tighten his grip on his sword and make it go bright red but is unable to do so. Suddenly, Giyu Tomioka appears behind him and also grabs his blade to help keep Muzan pinned. With both Demon Slayers holding on to the blade with their combined might, it turns bright red and Muzan instantly coughs up blood.
Muzan creates an armor of flesh.
As the sun rises steadily, the demon quickly attempts to think of a way to avoid disintegrating. Muzan attempts to cover himself in a wall of flesh to block the sunlight from hitting his skin and transforms into a giant baby. As the flesh grows outward and begins to swallow up Tanjiro, he throws his head back to headbutt Giyu out of the flesh's growth and gets swallowed into it alongside his blade as the Water Hashira yells out to him.
Muzan attempts to crawl away from the scene into some shade and Kiriya Ubuyashiki orders the remaining members of the Demon Slayer Corps to do everything they could to hinder him. Some lower ranking Demon Slayers throw a bookcase on top of Muzan's head from a building, slowing him down but he still crawls forward. A pair of Kakushi ram into him with some cars yelling at him to die as Kiriya orders them to fall back. Muzan crushes the cars and attempts to crawl forward.
Sanemi uses Idaten Typhoon to slice Muzan's right hand off.
Finding his way blocked by some tram cars held by more Kakushi, Muzan attempts to overcome this hurdle as well as he slowly begins to sizzle. As Muzan attempts to crush the Kakushi behind the tram cars with his fist, Kiriya orders them to fall back and stay alive. Sanemi intervenes and slice off Muzan's right hand with the Wind Breathing, Ninth Form: Idaten Typhoon however the cut was too shallow to do anymore damage.
As Muzan continues to try and climb over the cars to avoid dying, Gyomei Himejima throws his chain around the demon's neck. With some Kakushi pulling on him, the Stone Hashira attempts to pull the demon down on to the ground with brute force. He successfully does so and Kiriya yells for the demon to finally burn and disintegrate as Kuina Ubuyashiki prays for their victory.
Muzan begins to disintegrate.
Determined not to die, Muzan continues his resistance and begins to dig underground to avoid the sun. Giyu and Sanemi work in tandem to attack the demon and strike him with the Water Breathing, Tenth Form: Constant Flux and Wind Breathing, Fifth Form: Cold Mountain Wind. They are joined by Obanai who unleashes the Serpent Breathing, Fourth Form: Twin-Headed Reptile but all three are only able to inflict minor damage.
Giyu, Sanemi and Obanai using their respective Breathing Styles while Gyomei constricts Muzan.
With everyone at their limits, Gyomei's chain shatters and Muzan begins to crawl deeper down with the others left too exhausted to further impede him. Suddenly, Tanjiro tightens his grip on his blade and attacks Muzan from the inside, causing him to rear up in agony, going straight up into the sunlight and the demon finally begins to disintegrate as he cries out. An extra manga page implies that as this is happening, the remnant of Tamayo's spirit that taunted Muzan's inability to split is finally beginning to disintegrate and pass over as well.
The sun rises on a new day, disintegrating Muzan Kibutsuji and everyone heaves a sigh of relief, crying as their battle is finally over. Kiriya Ubuyashiki orders for the injuries of the wounded to be tended to before passing out.
Gyomei Himejima refuses to accept any help from the junior Demon Slayers or Kakushi and asks for the injuries of the younger fighters to be tended to first as he knows his fate is inevitable. He begins to see all the children he used to care for at the temple appear before him and they tell him they had always wanted to apologize for the day they had been attacked by the demon.
Saying they knew that they had hurt him, they explain that they had not intended to run away but were instead trying to protect him as he was blind. One child says that he was trying to go outside to get a farming tool as a weapon while another says she had been trying to go call for help. Gyomei hears their explanations and accepts them, as they continue on and tell him they also had a reason for driving out Kaigaku that night which they would have told him had they lived to the morning.
The children apologize to Gyomei.
Wistfully wishing the next day had dawned for the children as well, Gyomei apologizes to them for being unable to protect them. The children tell him not to apologize, saying that they love him and that they had been waiting for him this whole time. Thanking them, Gyomei says that they can all now move on together and passes away with a smile on his face, leaving the Kakushi in tears.
Mitsuri Kanroji comes to and finds herself in Obanai Iguro's arms and asks him if they won. He tells her that they did and she is relieved but tells him that she cannot feel anything anymore and that she would die soon. Obanai responds that he would also be dying soon and that she wouldn't be alone. Anguished at this, she tells him not to die, apologizing for not being much use in the fight.
Retorting that this was not true, Obanai reminds her of the first time they met, when Mitsuri had gotten lost in the mansion and she recalls that Obanai had helped her. Obanai rebuffs this, saying it was the other way around and that she had been the one who saved him. He tells her that despite all the troubles she had gone through to become a Hashira she had still been so normal when they'd met and that she was still capable of enjoying the things around her like a regular human being.
"If we're reborn, and we're reborn as humans, can I be your bride?"
This had made Obanai feel like a regular boy as well and he had cherished his time with her, saying that he was sure the other Hashira had felt the same way. He tells her that her cheerfulness had saved many people around her and that she had not been useless at all. Mitsuri begins to cry and says that meals had tasted best with Obanai as he had always looked at her with great affection. She asks if she could be his bride if they are ever reborn and Obanai replies that she could definitely be if she would have him as hers and that he would make her happy and protect her.
Meanwhile, Sanemi Shinazugawa sees a vision of Genya Shinazugawa and his siblings all playing together happily in heaven but looks around for his mother who is nowhere to be seen. Turning behind to his right he senses his mother Shizu Shinazugawa standing there and pulls her hand from the darkness, telling her to join her children. However, she refuses saying that she didn't deserve to go to heaven as she had attacked her children.
Smiling serenely, Sanemi tells her that he would go along with her. Saying that Genya would be saddened to see him so soon he attempts to go with her but his hand is wrenched away by his father who says that he would be the one accompanying their mother. Sanemi yells at his father to let go of his mother but he simply responds that Sanemi isn't ready to die yet and that he was extra tough. Sanemi regains consciousness and the Kakushi are overjoyed to see this.
Tanjiro, seemingly dead.
Inosuke Hashibira regains consciousness as well and bites a Kakushi who attempted to help him while coughing up blood. Zenitsu Agatsuma tells the Kakushi tending to him to tell Nezuko Kamado that he loved her and was brave, fighting to the very end, calling her his wife as others point out that he is not married. Giyu Tomioka gets up and tries to find Tanjiro Kamado but looks forward to see the boy kneeling still holding his blade and having bled heavily after losing his arm.
The Kakushi tearfully inform Giyu that Tanjiro was no longer breathing and had no pulse. Giyu is greatly saddened, tearing up and kneeling down in front of Tanjiro. He grabs the boy's remaining hand and apologizes for having failed to protect him, saying he was always the one who ended up receiving protection. He apologises to Nezuko for being unable to protect her brother, not knowing that she had arrived at the scene and was tearfully running for her brother behind him.
Muzan Kibutsuji recounts how death had always been close to him and that his heart had stopped many times even while he had been inside his mother's womb. He had been stillborn but when he was about to be cremated, he suddenly began writhing around and crying for the first time and thus had been spared.
Muzan recalls his past.
The Demon feels relieved as he says that he had finally achieved what he had been waiting to make happen for so long. Admitting that what he could do on his own was limited, he thinks of Kagaya Ubuyashiki and concedes that what the Master had told him was correct. Saying that everything that lives must die and that only feelings were eternal, Muzan says that he did not remember even a single human being he had killed but their feelings had been passed on and had stayed alive, even managing to conquer him.
Being moved to tears at the fact that the feelings of all the people had vanquished him, Muzan is resigned to his inevitable fate. However, he says that his own feelings are eternal and undying just like anyone else's and he extends his hand towards Tanjiro Kamado who was there with him and still alive.
As he gives all of his blood to Tanjiro, Muzan says that if the boy survived this he would become the strongest Demon ever. Since he was the brother of Nezuko Kamado who was the first Demon to develop an immunity to sunlight and also the only one capable of using the Breath Style of Yoriichi Tsugikuni. As he slowly disintegrates, Muzan tells Tanjiro to make his dream come true and destroy the Demon Slayer Corps in his place.
Tanjiro's gaze as a demon.
As Giyu Tomioka kneels in front of Tanjiro and the surrounding Kakushi shed tears, one of them suddenly gapes in shock as the tumour from Tanjiro's head disappears and he opens his eyes to reveal a demonic gaze. To everyone's shock Tanjiro regenerates his left arm and swipes at the Kakushi next to him but Giyu reacts quickly and pushes the Kakushi out of harm's way.
The other Kakushi look on in fear and ask Tanjiro why he is acting in such a manner, as the boy stands drooling profusely, enjoying his newfound fangs and claws. His Demon Slayer Mark mutates and grows down to move past the bridge of his nose, with another identical mark growing upwards from his neck to almost meet the other, similar to Kokushibo's Mark.
Tanjiro as the demon King.
Giyu rushes forward and yells at the other Kakushi to get away from Tanjiro as the boy looks to swipe at him. Suddenly, the sun shines brightly from the sky and Tanjiro double takes to look at it. He begins to burn and writhes on the ground, with his swipe at the Kakushi going off target but still managing to rip off the lower half of his mask. As Giyu gets in front of the Kakushi, he tells him to run away as he prepares to face this new threat, yelling for anyone who was still conscious to grab a weapon and begin fighting.
Everyone else looks on from afar with confusion at the sudden commotion, unaware of Tanjiro's fate when Giyu suddenly announces to them that Tanjiro has become a Demon. He says that they need to pin Tanjiro down and burn him in the sun before he could kill anyone. Tanjiro suddenly attempts to find shade to stop burning but Giyu intercepts him by stabbing him from the side and dragging him to ground, with the boy clutching at his hair. Noting to himself that if he had not been interrupted by the sun, Tanjiro would have surely killed the Kakushi, Giyu wistfully begs in his mind for Tanjiro to stay who he was and die as a human.
Tanjiro becomes immune to the sun.
Suddenly, Tanjiro stops burning and Giyu looks on in shock as the boy takes advantage of the Hashira's surprise to swipe at him. Giyu narrowly dodges but his chin is grazed as Tanjiro follows up with another swipe that is intercepted by Inosuke Hashibira who yells his friend and asks him what he is doing. Giyu attempts to stand up but feels dizzy from his blood loss and cannot do so.
Inosuke stands over him and tries to remind Tanjiro that Giyu is their ally as Zenitsu Agatsuma approaches the scene, supported by a Kakushi. Tanjiro crouches down and a third Demon Slayer Mark appears from the other side of his head and he bares his fangs at Inosuke who can only look on quietly at what his become of his friend. Zenitsu looks on in disbelief at the scene and says that everyone is tired and unable to continue fighting, asking for Tanjiro to think of Nezuko. Tanjiro leaps forward to attack Inosuke who prepares to fight him.
"It's no use, I can't do it!"
Inosuke thinks back to his time together with Tanjiro and says that they are all comrades, like brothers who would pull each other back if one of them started going down the wrong path. Steeling himself by thinking that no matter how difficult it was, they would always walk the right path. Zenitsu yells at Tanjiro to stop as Inosuke thinks to himself that he would strike Tanjiro down and stop him. Suddenly hit by a memory of Tanjiro offering him some fish to eat together with a smile on his face, Inosuke stops mid-swipe at Tanjiro's neck and is unable to complete his attack, tearing up and saying it was no use and that he could not attack Tanjiro.
Giyu Tomioka, Inosuke Hashibira and Zenitsu Agatsuma look on in shock as Nezuko Kamado runs forward and hugs the now Demonified Tanjiro Kamado. As he sinks his claws and fangs into his sister she begins to bleed but Tanjiro does not proceed to drink her blood.
Nezuko desperately holds her brother back.
Crying, Nezuko hugs Tanjiro and apologizes to him for all the hardships he had to endure to make her human again. She encourages him to resist becoming a Demon and says that going through all the suffering was quite difficult but to never give up. As Nezuko tells him to come home with her, Tanjiro starts sinking his claws in deeper and lets out a wild howl.
Inosuke and Zenitsu rush forward to help Nezuko and to try and bring their friend back. Zenitsu grabs Tanjiro from behind and begs him to stop hurting Nezuko and that she had become a human again. As he tells him that she might die if he continued further, Tanjiro lets out another howl but this time is interrupted by Inosuke repeatedly hitting him on the head. Saying that Tanjiro was not the kind of person who would hurt his sister, Inosuke tells his friend to snap out of it and to go back to being his usual kind self.
Tanjiro grows whips.
Angered, Tanjiro lets out another feral howl and sends out a shockwave that flings Inosuke, Zenitsu, and Giyu back as Nezuko desperately clings on to her brother. She falls to the ground as Tanjiro gets on all fours and releases bone whips, similar to those of Muzan Kibutsuji from his back. She begs him to keep fighting his newfound Demonic tendencies, however, he still swings a whip towards Zenitsu.
Giyu intercepts the attack by performing the Water Breathing, Fourth Form: Striking Tide, saving Zenitsu and the Kakushi propping him up. Thinking to himself that things had progressed too far, with Tanjiro having bitten into Nezuko and learning the taste of blood, Giyu aims to kill Tanjiro. However, the Water Hashira acknowledges that neither bright red blades nor the sun would work on Tanjiro anymore, leaving him virtually indestructible.
Nezuko intercepts Tanjiro's blast.
Suddenly, Tanjiro charges up a ball of pure energy from his mouth. Nezuko sees this and desperately tries to stop her brother from committing any murders. Telling him that he has to stop, Nezuko puts her hand in front of Tanjiro's mouth to block the attack and it goes off course, hitting the ground instead. Giyu is able to dodge as Zenitsu calls out to Nezuko in concern. Her entire left hand and forearm begin to bleed profusely as a result of blocking the attack and she yells at her brother to stop again as he gets on all fours.
Attempting to stop him from using his whips, Nezuko puts her hand on her brother's back and Tanjiro is only able to strike the ground again. Looking on in shock, understanding begins to dawn on Giyu as he sees that somewhere inside, Tanjiro was fighting his Demonic urges, as he was always avoiding doing any lethal damage to Nezuko. Giyu decides to try and bring Tanjiro back to his senses, though he is unsure whether he would be able to perform such a miraculous feat.
Meanwhile, from behind the shade of a nearby building, Yushiro looks on at the scene, cursing Muzan for continuing to torment people even after his death. Seeing that his Blood Demon Art would disintegrate with sunlight, Yushiro feels powerless to stop the carnage. Suddenly, he sees Kanao Tsuyuri limping forward to the scene of the battle.
Kanao makes up her mind after seeing the siblings.
Looking on at the sight of the two siblings, Kanao tears up and feels sorry for them. She reaches for a vial of medicine in her front pocket and is relieved to find it undamaged. Thinking back to when she received it from Shinobu Kocho, Kanao remembers the former Insect Hashira telling her that she had made an extra vial of Tamayo's medicine in the fear that there might not be enough left for Nezuko once things had settled. She had told her that it was not necessary for her to make it as Tamayo had made three bottles of medicine to restore Demons back to humans and the Insect Hashira admitted with a wry smile that she respected the Demon.
Kanao injects Tanjiro with the cure.
She tells Shinobu this must be the reason why she still has one eye. Quickly analyzing Tanjiro, Kanao assesses that since he had still only just become a Demon, she would be able to dodge his attacks even with just one eye. Kanao activates the Flower Breathing, Final Form: Equinoctial Vermilion Eye and charges forward to Tanjiro with Giyu doing a double take and recognising the move as Kanae's. Tanjiro swipes at Kanao but she evades it by backflipping over the boy and injects the medicine into him, just as he redirects his arm and then slashes at her torso.
As she begins to bleed, Kanao tells Tanjiro that it is enough and it is time for him to come back to them. Saying that he must not make Nezuko cry, Kanao falls to the ground with a thud as something begins to stir inside Tanjiro's consciousness upon hearing Nezuko's name and the medicine begins to take effect.
Nezuko Kamado tearfully calls out to her brother, Tanjiro Kamado to return so that they may finally return home. In his subconscious, Tanjiro stirs and responds that he is very tired and wishes to return home as well.
Muzan tries to convince Tanjiro to remain as a demon.
Tanjiro prays to God, pleading to return home, saying he only wants to go with his little sister. As he raises his arm to reach forward, eyes appear on the flesh growths covering his body and begin to speak. The voice of Muzan Kibutsuji attempts to dissuade Tanjiro from returning to his loved ones, questioning what would happen after he returned to them.
Muzan tells him that his entire family is dead and there is no point in returning home, but Tanjiro responds that he still has memories of happy days there. He tells the demon lord that the memories will never disappear as long as he and Nezuko are alive, and that is why he has to go back. Tanjiro continues to slowly reach forward.
Tanjiro's deceased comrades help push him out.
As Muzan tries harder to dissuade Tanjiro, he lies to him, claiming that the boy has killed Nezuko. Unpersuaded, Tanjiro calls Muzan's bluff, asserting that Nezuko is alive and that he is lying. His deceased friends then all give him a push to the back, raising him up. Muzan tells them not to interfere and continues to try and mislead Tanjiro. Insisting that they all now hate him and do not want him to return for what he has done after becoming a demon, Muzan continues to discourage the young Demon Slayer.
Tanjiro responds that he wants to apologize to everyone for hurting them, and Muzan retorts that they would not forgive him. Undeterred, Tanjiro declares that it is not for Muzan to decide and continues moving forward, saying he can smell the concern of his friends.
Nezuko's hands pull Tanjiro up.
Growing increasingly frustrated, Muzan tells Tanjiro to be silent, and says that he is the inheritor of his will and should neither look forward nor seek hope, but instead embrace life as a demon. Telling the boy that he would die in a few short years as he had manifested the Demon Slayer Mark, Muzan urges him to think only of himself and live forever. However, Tanjiro refuses, asserting that he never wished to live forever—only to return to his friends and live as a human.
Adamantly refusing to give up, Muzan tries to manipulate him further, asking if he truly wishes to return to life after everyone else has died. Clutching his head in his hands, he asks Tanjiro if he really wants to live on without loss. More hands push Tanjiro forward, and he smells the scent of wisteria flowers. Initially believing it to be Shinobu Kocho, he tears up upon seeing Nezuko's arms reaching out for him and reaches forward to meet her.
Tanjiro wakes up as a human.
Tanjiro grasps Nezuko's hand as she attempts to pull him forward, but Muzan seizes his arm, trying to drag him back, declaring that they had finally conquered the sun and that Tanjiro must go with him. Saying that he was a rare being, Muzan urges him to listen to the cries of the dead, claiming that they all resented him for being the only one who could move on and keep his life. Rebuffing this, Tanjiro says that they were not such people and that instead, they had been willing to sacrifice their lives for others. He asserts that while they were sad and suffered, they did not wish the same for others.
As Tanjiro is nearly dragged away, Muzan desperately grabs his torso, attempting to restrain him, but in vain—Giyu Tomioka, Zenitsu Agatsuma, and Inosuke Hashibira join Nezuko in pulling him up. As even more hands reach out to pull Tanjiro up, Muzan finally loses his grip. Tanjiro regains consciousness to find Nezuko looking down on him with tears in her eyes, surrounded by his friends and the Kakushi.
Yushiro tearfully tells Tamayo that the battle is over.
Nezuko calls out Tanjiro's name, and he apologizes to everyone for the harm he has caused. Everyone begins to cheer upon hearing his voice, and Inosuke tells Tanjiro that he hadn't caused him significant harm at all. Zenitsu begins sobbing, vowing to make Tanjiro repay him for a lifetime for what he had done, before boldly declaring Nezuko his wife—much to her shock and dismay. Giyu heaves a sigh of relief, and a Kakushi holds him steady.
As Nezuko hugs her brother, they both smile through their tears, and a Kakushi wakes Kanao Tsuyuri to tell her the good news. Kanao regains consciousness and smiles as she looks at Tanjiro, who thinks to himself that he is glad she is still alive. Inosuke grabs Tanjiro's head, sobbing, while Yushiro pulls out Tamayo's hairpin and weeps, saying that it is finally over.
Three months after the battle against Muzan Kibutsuji, the world is now free of evil Demons and the survivors of the battle resolve to continue living despite all they lost. Tanjiro Kamado recovers at the Butterfly Mansion and sees the cherry blossoms in bloom alongside Nezuko Kamado. Inosuke Hashibira and Zenitsu Agatsuma sleep peacefully at the other end of Tanjiro's bed as Nezuko says the flowers look very pretty.
Tanjiro and Nezuko examine Tanjiro's hand and eye.
Examining Tanjiro's left hand, now horribly shriveled up, Nezuko asks her brother how it feels, and he responds, claiming he cannot feel anything in his left arm beneath the elbow, so he cannot use the hand anymore. Then he points to his right eye and says that while it looks okay, he cannot see anything out of it. Tanjiro asks Nezuko how she is doing, and she responds with a beaming smile that she feels perfectly fine. Still feeling guilty over having attacked her when he was a Demon, Tanjiro apologizes to Nezuko for attacking her.
Nezuko pouts and says no one cares if he turned into a Demon and attacked everyone, saying that she was just glad he was human again she tells him that if he apologizes for it again she would flick his forehead. He tells her that Giyu Tomioka told him he feared all was lost when Tanjiro had bitten Nezuko, and she laughs, saying she had felt the same. Then he tells her that Yushiro had told him it was quite lucky because they had Shinobu Kocho's medicine with them and because Nezuko had already been a Demon before, so she had developed an immunity to Muzan's cells.
Yushiro expresses his admiration for Tanjiro.
These words fly over Nezuko's head as Tanjiro hears what Yushiro had told him. The Demon had told Tanjiro that had they not had Shinobu's medicine or had Nezuko not been the one he had bitten, then he may have never become a human again. Yushiro had been impressed that Tanjiro hadn't completely lost himself since he had been a more powerful Demon than either Muzan or Nezuko, even conquering the sun in an instant. He has told Tanjiro that he admired him for having fought valiantly, and the boy had stammered over his words at the compliment, modestly saying that he had received a lot of help. Then Yushiro had told him it was a joke and not to take it seriously before picking up Chachamaru and leaving.
Kiriya thanks the Hashira and Demon Slayers on behalf of the Ubuyashiki Family.
Tanjiro had called to him before he left, asking him to stay alive and not to die, as he was the only one who could keep Tamayo's memory alive. Tanjiro had not heard from the Demon since then and was getting slightly worried about him. Suddenly remembering Giyu, he asks Nezuko where he is, and she responds that he is alright and was with Kiriya Ubuyashiki. Meanwhile, Kiriya began the Final Hashira Meeting, with the two remaining Hashira, Giyu Tomioka and Sanemi Shinazugawa both in attendance. Kiriya announces that the Demon Slayer Corps was disbanding from that moment on. The Ubuyashikis express their gratitude to the Hashira and the other Demon Slayers for their centuries of service and bow before them, with both Hashira protesting at this.
Telling the Ubuyashikis that they were the ones who kept the Corps together and that they did not want any thanks, the Hashira express their gratitude to the Ubuyashikis. Giyu tells Kiriya that he was excellent at his job and that his father and ancestors would be proud, and the Ubuyashikis tear up at these words, as Kiriya thanks Giyu for his compliment. The two Hashira look to each other and smile; their long journey is finally ended.
Tengen and his wives check up on the siblings.
Meanwhile, Tengen Uzui and his wives visit Tanjiro, being glad to meet them again. Suma rushes forward to greet Nezuko and starts loudly doting over the girl, so much so that Makio hits her for being too loud, much to her frustration. She asks Tengen if he saw Makio hit her, but he responds that he missed it. Tengen tells Tanjiro to visit them when he got better, giving him their address, and Hinatsuru handed him a snack. At that moment, Senjuro Rengoku and Shinjuro Rengoku arrive as well. Tengen beckons to them to come in and begins playing with Senjuro and Nezuko.
Shinjuro speaks with Tanjiro and thanks him for using Kyojuro Rengoku's handguard on his blade during the battle, saying it would have made his son quite happy. Tanjiro humbly replies that Kyojuro's words had been quite inspiring for him and had helped him throughout his journey. Zenitsu suddenly wakes up and finds that the Swordsmiths are waiting outside of Tanjiro's room, saying they come every day and creep him out. His shock only grows as a group of Kakushi also arrive, and they all enter the room, filling it to the brim. Zenitsu holds on to Tanjiro, scared at this turn of events as Tanjiro smiles at the sight of more of his comrades.
Meanwhile, Inosuke sneaks away into the kitchen to grab a snack as Aoi Kanzaki is busy cooking. He swipes some of the food, and she catches him, saying he was stealing again and then offering him a plate of prepared food, telling him to stop stealing food. Inosuke is impressed at how quickly she caught him and wonders if she's strong and then smiles serenely as he begins to dig into the food presented to him.
Kanao tells Tanjiro about the tree.
Kanao Tsuyuri stands in the garden, in front of a cherry blossom tree, and Tanjiro comes to meet her, saying it was a beautiful tree. She tells him that it was called Victory and had been planted by the first user of Flower Breathing, and she had come to tell it that they had finally defeated Muzan. Tanjiro asks her how she is doing, and she responds that she still has some vision left in her eyes and that her wound was better, saying that Sanemi had even given her Obanai Iguro's pet snake Kaburamaru to take care of, as the serpent slithers out of her collar.
Sanemi meets Nezuko, and she greets him, asking him how his injuries were, to which he responds that they are fine. Sanemi apologizes to Nezuko for having passed out after Muzan's defeat, leaving them to deal with Tanjiro on their own, but she cheerfully responds that it was no trouble and that she had once passed for two whole years, saying it was nothing compared to that. She then says that she loved sleeping, which makes Sanemi think of Genya Shinazugawa when he was a child and had told Sanemi that he loved sleeping because then he didn't get hungry. Sanemi smiles and pats Nezuko's head, telling her to take care, as Zenitsu jealousy looked on from around the corner of the hallway, enraged at Sanemi's actions.
Tanjiro, Nezuko, Zenitsu, and Inosuke bring flowers to the graves.
Tanjiro and Nezuko find Giyu and Sakonji Urokodaki and greet them, glad to be reunited. Later on, they go to pay their respects at the graves of all the fallen before they depart the Butterfly Mansion for the Kamado residence. Zenitsu complains that it will take all day but refuses to let Inosuke do it with his faster method, saying he would not pay the proper respect. Once they were finished and on their way to the Kamado household, Inosuke asked Zenitsu what he was carrying on his back, and Zenitsu responded that it was his gramps' remains. Puzzled, Inosuke asks what remains are and if they are edible, to Zenitsu's disgust.
Tanjiro, Nezuko, Zenitsu, and Inosuke reside in the Kamado home.
On their way back, they meet Saburo, one of the people who lived near the Kamado family and he greets them tearfully. When they arrive back at the Kamado household, they find that flowers are growing outside the house and pay their respects to the other Kamados by kneeling in front of the flowers and praying. They begin their new life together at the Kamado household and time leaps forward to a large, modern city.
Kanata Kamado tries to wake his younger brother Sumihiko up, saying he would be late for school. Sumihiko groggily responds that he is already up, but Kanata sees that he is barely awake and decides to leave for school by himself.
Toko berates Yoshiteru.
Yoshiteru Agatsuma reads 'The Legend of Zenitsu,' the autobiography of his great-grandfather Zenitsu Agatsuma, and cries when he reaches the part where they defeated Muzan Kibutsuji. Suddenly, his sister Toko, who resembles Nezuko, kicks Yoshiteru in the back and tells him to stop reading their great-grandfather's novel of lies and to focus on his studies as his grades had been unreasonably low. He objects and says that the Demon Slayers had been very cool, but Toko cuts him off and twists his ear, telling him to be cool like them and go study to get better grades.
As the two of them make their way to school together, Yoshiteru thinks to himself how the other women in his family were all quiet and polite, but Toko was nothing like them. With an annoyed expression, he asks Toko if she believes in reincarnation, and she merely snaps at him, asking what he was making such an expression for. Yoshiteru then says he believed that everyone who had died fighting Demons for a peaceful world had been reincarnated to live a peaceful life.
Tenma Uzui showing off his medal.
Toko ignores him and looks at a news alert with admiration on her phone, which declared that an athlete called Tenma Uzui had won a gold medal in gymnastics for Japan. Yoshiteru says that Tenma was rude and nasty, but Toko defends him, and he says that it truly was possible to get away with anything if one was good-looking.
Another news story catches Yoshiteru's eye, and he snatches Toko's phone from her, much to her irritation. He opens the story about a fair-looking botanist called Aoba Hashibira, who had discovered a rare flower called the Blue Spider Lily, which only bloomed during the daytime for two to three days every year. Aoba had come under intense criticism following a mistake in their handling of the lilies, which caused them all to wither, and was forced to apologize at a press conference. Yoshiteru decries this attitude towards such a beautiful woman, but Toko corrects him and tells him that Aoba is, in fact, a man, much to his shock and disgust.
The pair then encounter a woman pushing two strollers with twin children in them. They were wrapped in cloud-patterned blankets and had black hair, reminiscent of the Tokito twins Muichiro and Yuichiro. Yoshiteru asks if the twins are girls, and Toko says he is always creepy, to which he cries out and declares that he is not creepy at all.
Yoshiteru and Toko encounter Kanata.
The two then pass a pair of female students, and Yoshiteru immediately recognizes that they are from the nearby Sekirei Women's Academy, with two students being exact likenesses of Kanae Kocho and Shinobu Kocho. Toko looks at her brother in disappointment but is quickly distracted when she spots Kanata and eagerly runs over to tell him he looks cute, with Kanata returning the compliment to her delight.
Yoshiteru mutters that he has been learning how to cast curses, so they should watch out, and Toko angrily asks him what he had said, to which he whimpers an apology. They then cross next to the kindergarten, and Yoshiteru stares at the teacher, who looked exactly like Gyomei Himejima, but also notes that he looked funny in his pink apron. Toko asks Kanata if he wants to go with her to a certain diner on their way home. Kanata asks if she meant the one with the snake decor and the giant serving sizes, which Toko confirms, and Kanata responds that he is unsure if he could ever show his face there again.
Toko suggests they go to the diner.
He then tells her how the last time he had been there with Yoshiteru, the boy had kept staring at the chest of the woman who worked there, who resembled Mitsuri, and her husband, who worked there in the kitchen, had thrown a knife at them. Her husband resembles Obanai. Toko turns around to Yoshiteru in disgust and rage, as the boy stammers that this was a false accusation.
Back at the Kamado household, Sumihiko finally wakes up and notices that he was running late, wondering why no one had woken him up. He then gets ready for school and parkours his way out of his window to the bottom of their apartment and sprints for his school. On his way, he passes through a house with two elderly men playing shogi, bearing resemblance to and wearing robes similar to those of Sakonji and Jigoro; the one wearing Jigoro's robes yells out at Sumihiko, asking him why he did this every morning. Meanwhile, on the old men's television, a news report began about an Ubuyashiki who had set the record for the eldest living Japanese person. This Ubuyashiki is actually Kiriya Ubuyashiki, who became the master after his father, Kagaya Ubuyashiki, who died during the beginning of the Infinity Castle Arc.
Sumihiko on his way to school.
Sumihiko continues his race, and on the way, he runs past a store called 'Haganezuka Maintenance' and also three girls who recognized him as the running guy. The girls, who resemble Sumi, Kiyo, and Naho, giggle as Sumihiko continues his run. Arriving at a traffic light that had just gone green, Sumihiko attempts to jump over the hood of a police car to avoid having to stop. He startles the policemen inside, who are Sanehiro Shinazugawa and the reincarnation of Genya Shinazugawa. Sanehiro is incensed and believes that Sumihiko must be the one they had received seven reports of. They begin to go after him, and Sumihiko runs even faster.
He crosses a group of three children, including Giichi Tomioka and the reincarnation of Sabito and Makomo. The boys have a rare toy shaped like the masks once made by Sakonji for his pupils, with the girl saying she had run out of her allowance. The boys offer her their own so that she may also be able to get one of her own, and she is overjoyed and embarrassed at their generosity.
Yushiro Yamamoto, the mysterious artist.
At the school, Yoshiteru watches as a boy named Goto looks at his phone at an image of a beautiful woman who looks just like Tamayo. Yoshiteru interrupts the boy and his friend and says that he recognizes this as one of the paintings of Yushiro Yamamoto, which is Yushiro's alias. He had begun to receive acclaim throughout the world for his paintings of Tamayo, which were said to be like photographs. Yoshiteru notes, however, that Yushiro would attempt to shoot any reporters who came to ask him questions. Saying that his first love was No. 812 Tamayo with dark blue flowers, Yoshiteru walks off leaving the two boys bewildered at him.
Sumihiko continues to run and is joined by Tojuro, who is Senjuro Rengoku's descendant. Greeting the boy, Sumihiko says that it is unusual for him to be late, and Tojuro explains that he had woken up at 4 am but had gotten absorbed into his training. He says that he couldn't hear anything until his father whacked him, and suddenly the police car drew nearer to the boys, asking for Sumihiko to stop. Tojuro says that Sumihiko should get into a sport, but the boy responds that it would cut into his sleep, with Tojuro being adamant that he would be great at whatever he picked.
The End.
The two continue to run, with the police car asking for them to stop as they arrive at their high school, where a teacher, who looks like Murata, asks for the gate to be closed as soon as he sees Sumihiko. The person at the gate says that there are still three minutes until it should close, but the teacher insists, saying that Sumihiko was a habitual offender. As the gate begins to shut, Sumihiko says he believes they will make it, and Tojuro agrees. Both of them somersault over the gate and land inside the school, running for their classes. The police car comes to a halt, and Sanehiro walks over to the gate and tells the teacher that they need to talk.
Aoba sits on a bench in the park, noting how it is a quiet day but the lab might fire him and wishing he could live a quiet life alone in the mountains. Back at the Kamado residence, Sumihiko's mother receives a phone call and is told of his doings, being highly surprised and apologizing for the trouble her son caused. On the wall next to her, there hung many photos and a katana that is actually Tanjiro's Nichirin Blade with Kyojuro's flame hilt. Just above the blade hangs an old, yellowing picture of all those who had survived the battle against Muzan and the two Hanafuda earrings of Yoriichi Tsugikuni as the series ends.
