Akaza looks on with displeasure as the Biwa Demon plays her instrument, and is greeted by one of his Upper Rank colleagues, Gyokko. The potted Demon asks him how he's been after ninety years, and proclaims his insincere worry over Akaza being the slain Upper Rank. Hantengu corrects his colleague, as it had actually been one hundred and thirteen years since they had last been summoned, and expresses his concern over the oddity and unluckiness of the number. Ignoring them, Akaza asks the Biwa Demon if Muzan had arrived, the answer being no, and then asks if Upper Rank 1 had arrived. Before she can answer, Doma places a hand on Akaza's shoulder, asking him to show some concern for his well-being, as he did not wish to see any of his "precious buddies" die.
Kokushibo at the Upper Rank meeting
Gyokko and Doma exchange small talk about the former's pot and latter's use of the pot that Gyokko had given him. Akaza demands that Doma remove his hand, viciously punching him when he doesn't immediately do so. Quickly recovering from the blow, Doma pleasantly asks if Akaza had gotten stronger since they last met, enraging the tattooed Demon. The Biwa Demon finally relates that Upper Rank 1 had been the first to arrive, surprising Akaza, who quickly spotted his silent colleague. Kokushibo noted that he was present, as was their master. As each Upper Rank reacted to the silent arrival of their leader, Muzan noted that Gyutaro was dead.
Muzan informs the Upper Ranks that Gyutaro has been killed.
Doma apologized for Gyutaro's failure, wondering what punishment Muzan would give him, but the ancient Demon declined all of his suggestions, having already anticipated Upper Rank 6's defeat. He further commented that he didn't expect anything from them, which Doma questioned, as he did not believe he had ever failed to live up to his master's expectations. Muzan countered by stating that the Ubuyashiki family had yet to be killed and the Blue Spider Lily had yet to be found, making him question why the Upper Ranks even existed. Each of the Upper Ranks offers some excuse for this failure, save Akaza and Gyokko. The latter offers Muzan some information he claims will get him closer to achieving his goals.
Akaza viciously destroys Doma's head.
Swiftly beheading the Upper Rank, Muzan berates Gyokko for speaking of change, as he is only looking for permanence. He adds that he is "at the height of displeasure" due to an Upper Rank being killed for the first time in over a hundred years, further berating Gyokko for attempting to give him unconfirmed information. He demands that the Upper Ranks serve him with "suicidal devotion" from that moment on, orders Gyokko to head over with Hantengu if he can confirm his information, and then leaves. Doma approached Gyokko, asking to join him on his mission, and then has the upper portion of his head destroyed by Akaza. The Upper Rank 3 ordered him to get lost, as Muzan had not given him any orders.
Kokushibo wished Akaza luck before departing from the meeting.
Akaza looks in disbelief as his arm is sliced off by Kokushibo. Doma attempts to defend his subordinate, but Kokushibo still reprimands Akaza for his actions as they soil the relationships between the Upper Ranks, advising him to battle Doma for his spot as Upper Rank 2 instead if he truly is bothered. After hearing this suggestion, Doma interrupts and asserts that Akaza wouldn’t be able to raise his rank, given how much more powerful he was despite becoming a Demon much later than him, a fact that likely contributed to Akaza’s rage. He continues on, describing how he allowed Akaza to use violence on him as a way to get along with him.
Kokushibo ignores Doma and asks Akaza if he understood what he meant. Akaza confirms, declaring that he will definitely defeat him one day, receiving a word of good luck from his superior as he leaves the fortress. Doma tries to start a conversation with Akaza, but he also ignores him as he exits. Gyokko then asks Nakime to send him and Hantengu to their next destination, in which the Biwa Demon complies to. She additionally sends Doma back to his cult when he tries to talk to her, after which he mopes over his colleagues’ unfriendliness.
Sumiyoshi apologizes to his friend.
Somewhere else, a man is seen sitting in a house as another individual, Sumiyoshi Kamado, brings him tea and some food. The man thanks his friend for the hospitality, in which the latter apologizes for his wife being asleep and his child having to be babysat by a guest. He tells him not to worry about the situation and that he shouldn’t continue receiving meals for free from his friend. Sumiyoshi denies this, revealing that his family was saved by him and their lives were thanks to him. He also offers to pass down his guest’s tale as he didn’t have any successors, even if his family were just simple coal-burners.
Kanao finds that Tanjiro has woken up.
Sumiyoshi is gently turned down by his friend, as he states that his heritage will find its way back itself and that no matter what, it will return. He then says that, despite Sumiyoshi viewing him as powerful, he was unable to protect what was important to him and had little worth.
Tanjiro internally begs the man to not think of himself like that and cries as he wakes up from the dream, heavily bandaged and hooked up to multiple IVs. He tries to figure out where he is and is suddenly interrupted by a falling vase. Kanao stands in shock at the doorway and reveals that Tanjiro had been unconscious for two months, tearfully stating that she’s glad he’s awake.
A Kakushi named Goto is seen walking down the halls of the Butterfly Mansion. As he walks through the corridor, he reveals that two months have passed since the end of the battle at Yoshiwara, Tokyo and remembers how badly the swordsmen were injured, specifically Tanjiro Kamado. He brings a plate of castella with him, hoping the smell might help wake up Tanjiro from his two-month coma.
When he walks into the room, he discovers a shattered vase on the floor and is quietly infuriated. He announces that he has brought a dessert and asks Kanao Tsuyuri to clear a space so he can set it down. Tanjiro weakly thanks Goto for the dessert as Kanao observes him. Goto stands silently over Tanjiro's bed and loses his grip of the plate. After a moment's hesitation, he angrily bursts out at Kanao for not saying a word about Tanjiro regaining consciousness, insubordinately berating Kanao in a comical manner before going into the hall to alert Kiyo, Sumi, Naho, and Aoi.
The three young girls shed tears of joy after discovering that he had awakened, but are then immediately frightened when Aoi comes crashing into the room after having gotten caught in the laundry. After untangling herself, she begins to sob at his bedside. Tanjiro inquires on the status of his comrades, finding out that Zenitsu had awoken the day after the battle and had just left, screaming and crying, before going on a job. Tengen, the Sound Hashira, left after the battle with his wives despite his terrible injuries, with his toughness scaring the Kakushi.
Inosuke appears on the ceiling above Tanjiro.
However, when Tanjiro asks about Inosuke, he is told by Aoi that he had been horribly poisoned and that Inosuke was on the verge of death. Tanjiro responds subtly and wonders if he is hallucinating, as he spots Inosuke hanging on the ceiling. Everyone in the room then looks up in horror to witness Inosuke crawling upside down on the ceiling. He loudly praises 'Tanpachiro' for noticing him on the ceiling, to which Tanjiro comments that he is facing the ceiling. Inosuke drops down onto Tanjiro's bed, then brags that he woke a week before him and how he had poison resistance, making him resistant to medicines.
The three girls protest for Inosuke to get off the bed, and tell him that he is not normal as quoted by Shinobu. Kiyo goes on to show Tanjiro an image of a honey badger, saying that it has a thick, armor-like hide that allows it resistance to poison, which is what Inosuke is like in Shinobu's eyes. After listening to their conversation, Inosuke gloats about having an apparent 'immortality' and is swiftly corrected by Goto that he is simply just a moron. A fight ensues between the two and Aoi rushes to break it up, yelling at Inosuke to be careful and to stop forgetting important information that he is told.
Inosuke's poison resistance compared to that of a honey badger.
As the bickering gets louder, Kanao tries to quiet the room down until she has to yell at the others to be quiet as Tanjiro had fallen back asleep. Inosuke immediately worries that Tanjiro has returned into a comatose state, but the others assure him that he just needs to rest.
A week goes by with Tanjiro making a full recovery and Inosuke embarking on a new job. While Tanjiro works on improving his weakened state, he asks Kiyo and Naho about his new sword. The girls are hesitant to inform him that Hotaru had only sent letters thus far, and they show him the angry scrawlings of hate which clearly depict that the swordsmith would not make Tanjiro another sword. Now distraught, Kiyo tries to uplift Tanjiro by saying that Hotaru is being the difficult one, and he should try to meet him at the Swordsmith Village to discuss in person.
Tanjiro arrives at the Swordsmith Village.
Tanjiro eagerly requests permission to visit the village, which Kagaya allows. He sends a Kakushi to take him and she informs him that in order to keep the village safely hidden, Tanjiro must be carried there and will need to put on a blindfold, earplugs, and nose plugs. Throughout the journey, Tanjiro is frequently passed onto a new Kakushi, while the crows are also swapped in an effort to maintain the location's secrecy.
Once Tanjiro arrives at the village, he is amazed by the scents of the hot springs. He loudly shares his gratitude towards the Kakushi for transporting him, which echoes loudly throughout the hot springs. His voice is eventually heard by the Love Hashira, Mitsuri Kanroji, who is bathing in a nearby spring.
After arriving at the Swordsmith Village, Tanjiro is greeted by the village’s chief, Tecchin Tecchikawahara, who dubs himself the best of his craft in the village, and Tanjiro bows down before him at his request. Tecchin discloses to Tanjiro that the village is currently looking for Hotaru Haganezuka after he disappeared a few days prior. Tanjiro comments on his swordsmith’s "cute" name, which Tecchin reveals that he himself gave him that name, but Hotaru strongly dislikes it. The chief notes about how Hotaru had always had a bad temper and when Tanjiro attempts to apologize for fueling this temper through breaking his swords, Tecchin refutes it by stressing Hotaru should be making a sword that wouldn’t break. He reassures Tanjiro that they will bring Hotaru back, or, alternatively, have a different swordsmith forge his new blade. The two part with Tecchin suggesting Tanjiro relax in the hot springs.
Genya at the hot springs.
While advancing to the springs, Tanjiro runs into Mitsuri Kanroji, who had just returned from bathing. The Love Hashira complains about how she was ignored when she asked for an individual’s name at the spring, upset about the disrespect. Tanjiro calms her by revealing that the villagers were almost done with the dinner for their guests, which Mitsuri excitedly hurries off to.
At the springs, Tanjiro is suddenly hit with a tooth and is surprised to encounter Genya Shinazugawa. He excitedly jumps in the water and tries to converse with his fellow Demon Slayer, but is saddened after Genya angrily strikes him and storms off.
Mitsuri playing with Nezuko.
Back at the village, Tanjiro praises Mitsuri for the amount she is capable of eating, declaring that he himself would also try to eat lots and grow strong. He then brings up Genya, with Mitsuri sadly observing how the boy must be Sanemi Shinazugawa’s younger brother given that they share a last name, despite the Wind Hashira telling her he didn’t have one. Tanjiro asks why she felt it was pitiful, and, while playing with Nezuko, Mitsuri replies that she herself had five younger siblings and had good relationships with them. The two chat and both hope to someday be able to have a nice conversation with Genya, and Tanjiro decides to bring him leftovers since he didn’t come to dinner.
As they walk through a corridor with Nezuko, Tanjiro inquires Mitsuri on the reason why she joined the Demon Slayer Corps. Embarrassed, she states that she wanted to find a man to marry, someone who was stronger than her and could protect her. As she goes on about her thoughts, Tanjiro listens to her in disbelief.
Mitsuri whispering to Tanjiro about the secret weapon.
The trio are approached by a Kakushi, who informs Mitsuri that her new sword would be ready soon and that Mitsuri should check it out so that it could be adjusted if necessary. The Hashira bids farewell to Tanjiro and praises him for his hard work, expressing her approval for the siblings. After Tanjiro declares that he will be sure to defeat Muzan, Mitsuri happily hints about a 'secret weapon' hidden in the village that could make him stronger.
The next day, Tanjiro searches through the forest looking for Hotaru and ponders about the secret weapon Mitsuri told him about. In the distance, he suddenly sees two individuals, one of them being the Mist Hashira, Muichiro Tokito.
Behind the trees in the forest, Tanjiro worriedly watches a young child yell at the Mist Hashira, proclaiming that he wouldn’t hand over his key and his knowledge to him. Muichiro suddenly strikes and grips the boy, much to Tanjiro’s horror as he races over to restrain Muichiro’s wrist in an attempt to force him to let go.
Tanjiro protecting the boy from Muichiro.
Despite having a smaller and thinner body composition than Tanjiro, Muichiro does not budge and asks for Tanjiro to release his hold, quickly punching him in the stomach and calling him weak. The Hashira senses a Demon in Tanjiro’s box, but he slaps his hand away and saves the boy in the process. When the boy continues denying Muichiro the key, he insults him and other swordsmiths, stating they had no worth besides making swords and this conversation was currently wasting him time that could be used to save people.
Angry at Muichiro’s degrading words, Tanjiro hits him and expresses how he was too cruel to the child. While he states that he does not deny the accuracy of his words, Tanjiro stresses the importance of swordsmiths and how they, too, are fighting along with the Demon Slayers, albeit not on the front lines. Muichiro cuts him off and hits him in the neck, knocking him out cold. Right before losing consciousness, Tanjiro notices Hotaru Haganezuka behind a tree.
Yoriichi Type Zero in action.
While unconscious, Tanjiro hears a conversation between the child and Hotaru, but the latter runs off as soon as Tanjiro begins to regain consciousness. After picking himself up, Tanjiro excitedly inquires whether Hotaru was just there, which the boy nervously denies. The boy also reveals that he gave the key to Muichiro, in which Tanjiro apologizes for intervening as it wasn’t his place to. He is thanked, however, for standing up to the Hashira in order to defend a complete stranger. The two converse, and the boy informs Tanjiro about the key’s use, which is to operate a deteriorating mechanical doll that had been built by his ancestors and was used for swordsmen to train.
In the middle of their conversation, the two suddenly hear loud sounds. The boy leads Tanjiro over to where Muichiro is intensely training with the battle doll, dubbed Yoriichi Type Zero.
While watching Muichiro Tokito train against the mechanical doll, Tanjiro looks at the doll's face and ponders the idea that he has seen it before. He asks the young boy why the doll had six arms, in which he is told that as it was modeled after a real swordsman, the doll's six arms were necessary to imitate his movements. Tanjiro tries to push for more information, but the boy apologizes and states he didn't know much else, besides that it originated in the Sengoku period. Surprised, Tanjiro notes how that must mean Yoriichi Type Zero is over three hundred years old and even so, it still hadn't been destroyed. The boy replies that his ancestors were able to construct the doll at a level that couldn't be accomplished again at the present time—hence its durability—and he wouldn't be able to fix it himself especially without the aid of his late father, given that he doesn't possess the knowledge or skills to do so. Hearing this, Tanjiro understands the reasoning behind his resolve to not hand over the key to someone that could potentially break the doll.
Muichiro's crow praises his abilities.
The two observe Muichiro for a while longer and Tanjiro admires the Hashira's uncanny degree of skill, despite being of similar age. Muichiro's Kasugai Crows chips in and loudly praises her master's abilities, referring to him as a descendant of the Sun Breathing users and a genius completely different from Tanjiro. Amazed at his bloodline heritage, Tanjiro curiously inquires why Muichiro wasn't able to use the Sun Breathing, which receives him an angry assault by the crow. While he is being attacked by her, Tanjiro suddenly remembers the dream he had and how the swordsman he saw had a face that matched that of the doll's. Hearing his words, the crow stops and grumpily questions the logic behind his words, given how the swordsman was from so long ago. The young boy pitches in, proposing that perhaps it was a memory that was passed on, providing the example of a swordsmith "inheriting" memories of their swords and skills from ancestors, suggesting it may be similar to what Tanjiro was experiencing. The crow thinks of this idea as nonsense but is cut off as Tanjiro introduces himself to the boy, and the boy introduces himself as Kotetsu.
Muichiro destroys part of Yoriichi Type Zero.
Suddenly, the group hears a sound and witness Muichiro destroying parts of the doll, with pieces of its armor flying away. Devastated at the sight, Kotetsu runs away and hides in a tree, crying over the broken doll. Tanjiro finds him and attempts to motivate him by saying he'll eventually be able to improve and fix it, in which Kotetsu replies that he is too pathetic to do so. Tanjiro climbs up the tree and flicks Kotetsu as a method of snapping him back into reality, exclaiming how he had to make the effort and develop the skills so that even if he wasn't able to fix Yoriichi Type Zero, the generations after him would. Tanjiro compares his struggle with Kotetsu's, affirming that even if he dies before he is able to accomplish his goals, someone else will eventually be able to do so in his place so long as the framework is set. Cheered up, Kotetsu and Tanjiro conclude to determinedly work hard together.
Yoriichi Type Zero moves into a stance.
While they chat during a walk through the forest, they encounter Muichiro again who expresses that the training was helpful; however, his sword broke, so he will be taking one of the doll's swords. He tosses the broken sword indifferently to Tanjiro, asking him to discard it. Although confused by the swordsman's attitude, Tanjiro notes he lacked a malicious aura and likely wasn't acting rudely on purpose.
A storm brews overhead as Tanjiro rushes to Kotetsu, who appears aloof while staring at the broken doll in the rain. Tanjiro suggests they check if it can still move, which is met by approval from the boy. As they pick it up, it remains stagnant for a few moments before suddenly shifting into a stance, much to Tanjiro's excitement. Kotetsu then fiercely orders him to train with the doll and become stronger than Muichiro with his aid, surprising him.
Kotetsu proposes a variety of insults Tanjiro could use once he becomes stronger than Muichiro, but Tanjiro refuses the thought and tells himself he has to become stronger. He begins to train with Yoriichi Type Zero, with Kotetsu’s analytical skills and newfound motivation being used to excessively critique the Demon Slayer’s movements. He declares that until Tanjiro can accomplish what he wants, he won’t receive food.
Kotetsu adjusts the doll by twisting its fingers.
Kotetsu shows Tanjiro another method of adjusting the doll's movements through twisting its fingers—such that it’d coordinate with its users’ weaknesses—and compares the actions to that of playing with a wooden puzzle box. After readjusting the doll, Tanjiro continues brutally training with it without food, water, or sleep under Kotetsu’s direction, because the latter does not understand the limits of a human.
Just as Tanjiro approaches the brink of death, analogous to nearly crossing the Sanzu River, he becomes capable of smelling the incoming movement of the doll and lands a hit on it, earning him his first meal. After gaining this ability to predict movements, Tanjiro continues to train it and improves his stamina and foresight.
A sword's hilt emerges from Yoriichi Type Zero.
In the middle of a spar with the doll, Tanjiro’s newly improved abilities grant him an opening to behead it, however, he hesitates mid-swing and worries about breaking the doll. Kotetsu yells at him to strike, reassuring him that he would be able to fix it. Internally, the young boy begs Tanjiro to not waver so that one day, he will become stronger than anyone else.
With Kotetsu's approval obtained, Tanjiro succeeds in landing a blow to the doll’s neck and breaks his training sword in the process. He apologizes to Kotetsu for the ruined sword and, after Kotetsu's sudden exclamation, Tanjiro turns to see a sword’s hilt emerging from the doll’s body where its head used to be.
A sword's hilt appearing out of the broken Yoriichi Type Zero startles Tanjiro Kamado and Kotetsu, who shout in shock. Their surprise quickly shifts to fascination and excitement as the pair attempts to deduce the age of the blade. Kotestu urges Tanjiro to take the sword, but Tanjiro is adamant on the fact that he could not and that the doll breaking to make it appear wasn't completely his doing. Kotetsu insists that as the owner of the doll, he has the final say and that Tanjiro should take it, especially considering how he needed a new blade anyways.
The blade's rusted appearance.
Caving in, Tanjiro pulls out the blade as Kotetsu watches excitedly in anticipation, but they are crestfallen after seeing the blade had rusted with its age. Kotetsu tries to apologize to a tearful Tanjiro for getting his hopes up, but they are suddenly interrupted by a muscular Hotaru Haganezuka emerging from the woods. Hotaru mentions that he heard their conversation and tries to take the sword from Tanjiro and Kotetsu, who resist. They try to get Hotaru to explain his motive, but the swordsmith continues to try to take the sword and finally forces it out of their hands.
Kozo Kanamori appears behind Hotaru and tickles his sides, making him fall limp. Kozo greets Tanjiro and Kotetsu and goes on to explain Hotaru's situation. He states that Hotaru had been remotely training in order to improve his forging skills so he could make a strong sword for Tanjiro, in which the Demon Slayer happily admires Hotaru's thoughtfulness. Kozo continues on, saying how Tanjiro's repeated requests for swords from Hotaru made him happy, as he lost many of his clients with his personality.
Hotaru declares that he will fix the rusted sword.
Amidst their continuous chatter, Hotaru suddenly regains consciousness and confidently declares that he will fix the rusted blade. Kotetsu fusses over how he could've just easily explained before they fought over the sword, which results in an angered Hotaru lifting Kotetsu by the neck. The next day, Tanjiro talks about Hotaru's progress on the sword with Genya Shinazugawa, who, angered by Tanjiro's presence and attempts at friendliness, tries to get him to leave. When he starts yelling, Tanjiro notices that the tooth he had pulled out a few days ago had reappeared. He questions him on this and shows the tooth he had picked up as proof, disgusting Genya and resulting in him being kicked out of the room. Saddened, Tanjiro ponders his fellow Demon Slayer's consistent anger.
Hantengu appears at the Swordsmith Village.
Later that night, a swordsmith strolls through the village after a bath and encounters a pot on the ground. Curious, he reaches for it but is suddenly engulfed by the pot, killing him. Gyokko, the Upper Rank Five, emerges and comments on the poor quality of the swordsmith as a meal. Elsewhere, Upper Rank Four Hantengu cowers on a roof and states they must quickly accomplish their mission.
An asleep Tanjiro Kamado is woken by Muichiro Tokito pinching his nose. The Mist Hashira questions Tanjiro if he knew Kozo Kanamori's whereabouts, as he was his new swordsmith. Tanjiro mentions that he was likely with Hotaru Haganezuka and offers to help find them. Muichiro asks why Tanjiro would willingly accompany him when he had other things to be doing, and Tanjiro replies he believes helping others would positively benefit him.
At Tanjiro's words, Muichiro feels a strong sense of familiarity and questions him on what he had just said. The Demon Slayer tries to reply, but is hit by an awakened Nezuko, breaking Muichiro's perception. Seeing Nezuko, Muichiro comments on her uniqueness and wonders where he'd seen her before while Tanjiro worries about Chachamaru, Tamayo's feline assistant, appearing before them.
Hantengu enters the room.
The trio keep thinking about their respective worries, and Tanjiro and Muichiro sense a presence behind the doors. When they glance over, Hantengu crawls into the room without radiating his presence as a Demon. Tanjiro and Muichiro both realize Hantengu is an Upper Rank and prepare to attack, with Muichiro immediately using Mist Breathing, Fourth Form: Shifting Flow Slash. Hantengu swiftly dodges to the ceiling and cries, begging the Demon Slayers not to hurt him.
Hantengu divided into Sekido and Karaku.
Tanjiro tells himself not to hesitate and uses Hotaru's newly forged blade to attack Hantengu with Hinokami Kagura: Sunflower Thrust. Hantengu dodges again, but receives a blow from Nezuko in her awakened form. Tanjiro tells Nezuko not to transform and meanwhile, Muichiro successfully beheads Hantengu. Tanjiro remembers that beheading an Upper Rank does not necessarily result in its death based on his prior fight with Daki and Gyutaro and yells at Muichiro to keep his focus. Right as he does so, the severed head and body transform into two new Demons, one of which holds a leaf-shaped fan. Muichiro attacks the Demon with the fan, while Tanjiro takes on the other.
As Muichiro rushes to attack, the Demon waves his fan at him and intensely blasts Muichiro out of the building. Tanjiro and Nezuko manage to hold on to the rubble and come face-to-face with the two Demons. Karaku, the Demon with the fan, asks his partner Sekido if he was having fun. Sekido responds negatively and uses his staff to emit bolts of lightning-like attacks, which slowly make Tanjiro lose consciousness. Before he does, he sees Genya Shinazugawa on the rooftop pointing a gun at Sekido.
Genya Shinazugawa shoots both Sekido and Karaku with his Nichirin gun, blasting off Sekido's head and nearly decapitating Karaku. Karaku expresses enjoyment towards the fight as Genya rushes in to slash off his head with a Nichirin Sword. Tanjiro yells at Genya that his attacks were futile and the Demons were willingly being beheaded so they could keep splitting and increase their attack power.
Urogi abducts Tanjiro.
As the battle continues, Tanjiro desperately analyzes his opponents and tries to pinpoint their weaknesses, but his thoughts are interrupted by a third, bird-like Demon, Urogi, who lifts him up into the air with his foot. Realizing that each Demon has a unique ability, Tanjiro instructs Nezuko to assist Genya but, horrified, he realizes that his teammate had been impaled by a fourth Demon, Aizetsu. Urogi taunts him for worrying about others and not himself, proceeding to generate a sonic scream. Tanjiro attempts to counter with Hinokami Kagura and successfully cuts off Urogi's leg, but he is unable to dodge his scream and is violently struck with the attack as he falls.
Tanjiro plummets through the trees and lands hard on the ground. He pleads himself to get up and protect the village, but his injuries render him incapable of easily moving. Urogi lands near him and holds his leg down as he directs another shriek, and Tanjiro silently watches in alarm.
Muichiro saves Kotetsu from the fish Demon.
Elsewhere, Muichiro dashes through the forest as he makes his way back to the village. He spots Kotetsu trying to hold off a minion fish Demon and internally decides that he is not of priority to save, considering the boy's lack of refined swordsmanship skills and the importance of the village chief.
However, as he hears Kotetsu's cries as the Demon grabs him, Muichiro remembers Tanjiro's words of how helping others would positively benefit himself. He slashes the fish Demon's arm, releasing Kotetsu, and stands guard over the boy while requesting for him to run so he wouldn't be in the way.
Muichiro slashes the fish Demon and decapitates it, but it regenerates. He tries breaking the pot stationed on the Demon's back and subsequently makes it disintegrate. The Hashira then realizes the pot was the source of power for the Demon, likely the result of a Blood Demon Art. As he continues to think, a crying Kotetsu ambushes him with a hug and thanks him for saving him while also apologizing for calling him names earlier.
The Hashira tells Kotetsu to leave as he has to make it back to the village. Kotetsu begs him not to go since Kozo Kanamori and Hotaru Haganezuka were under attack while Hotaru was finishing a blade. Muichiro tries to turn down his request, but he hesitates when he hears Kagaya Ubuyashiki's voice in his head, who tells him to rediscover himself. Surprised at the pause, Muichiro thinks back to when he had gotten amnesia after being saved by Kagaya, who had told him not to worry about the memory loss and that the mist in his head will eventually clear out with matters that may seem unimportant at first.
Muichiro reminds himself that he was acknowledged by his master.
Convinced, Muichiro carries Kotetsu with him as they search for Kozo. As they continue through the forest, Muichiro begins to doubt if he was doing the right thing as the village was still in danger. However, he pushes the thought away and reminds himself that he is the Mist Hashira acknowledged by his master.
Tanjiro cuts Urogi's head.
In the forest near the edge of the village, Tanjiro dodges an attack from Urogi by slicing his head, splitting him into two more Demons. The pair of Demons generate more sonic screams and direct them at Tanjiro, but the Demon Slayer is able to withstand them and observes that Hantengu is most powerful at four separate Demons that represent the four primary emotions; any more splitting would decrease their attack strength. With this information, Tanjiro continues to attack Urogi and is slashed across the chest with the Demon's sharp claws, but manages to land multiple blows on his head.
Back in the building, Nezuko struggles against Karaku. Sekido impatiently asks for his partner to defeat her and Aizetsu volunteers to land the final blow. However, as Aizetsu attempts to pull his spear out of Genya, the Demon Slayer points his gun at him and blasts off his head.
Aizetsu injures Genya.
Sekido berates Aizetsu for his foolishness after Genya Shinazugawa shoots off his head, and the Demon responds by forcibly pulling his spear out of Genya, mortally damaging him. He comments on how the spear lodged in Genya's body had prevented him from dying after it hit his vital points and now he will perish. Ignoring him, Genya quietly chants the Amida Sūtra, which is recognized by Aizetsu. Angered at the delay, Sekido yells at Aizetsu to kill Genya, but the Demon Slayer dodges his spear and attacks Aizetsu from behind with a Nichirin Sword.
However, before Genya can cut off the Demon's head, he gets blasted from Sekido's lightning and becomes incapacitated, though he manages to hit Sekido with a bullet. Aizetsu responds by hitting him with the spear's shaft, knocking him into the wall.
Sekido incapicates Nezuko.
Still struggling against Nezuko Kamado, Karaku gleefully watches his companions fight and then impales Nezuko through the stomach with his foot. He gives instructions to Sekido and pulls Nezuko's arm off, but he receives a hefty kick from her and nearly loses his head. Using her Blood Demon Art, Nezuko proceeds to burn Karaku and pulls herself from his grasp. When Karaku is yelled at by Sekido, she takes his fan and blows him out of the building. She tries to do the same with Sekido, but he sticks his staff through her neck and shocks her with bolts of lightning, paralyzing her.
Genya's fanged smile.
Back in the forest, Tanjiro Kamado continues fighting against Urogi, who continuously slashes him with his talons. Tanjiro forces himself not to panic and makes it a priority to return to the building, internally telling Genya and Nezuko to keep holding on.
Genya recovers from being hit into the wall and continues muttering the chant. Surprised that he is still alive, Sekido questions him. Smiling, Genya holds up his gun and tells him his name, stating that he will be the one to kill him.
Tanjiro pierces Urogi.
Tanjiro Kamado continues fighting against Urogi and considers using the Demon's flight ability to exit the forest and return to Nezuko Kamado and Genya Shinazugawa in the village. Finalizing his plan, Tanjiro stabs the Demon in the mouth when he picks him up and uses the force to smash into the building's exterior wall, cracking it and falling in.
Tanjiro picks himself in time to see Sekido paralyzing Nezuko. When he dashes to save her, Sekido generates another staff and tries to hit Tanjiro, but the boy uses Urogi's foot to defend himself and prevent the lightning from reaching him. He then slices the Demon's head and tongue, stalling some time for him to pull the staff out of Nezuko's neck.
Urogi, Karaku, and Sekido regroup.
Suddenly, Tanjiro gets slammed down on the ground with the second staff and is about to receive a shock of lightning, but Nezuko recovers in time to burn Sekido and prevent him from hurting him. Relieved that Nezuko's Blood Demon Art is effective, he looks up in time to see Karaku soar through the air and hit the building's floor with enough pressure to bore a hole through it and render Tanjiro and Nezuko unconscious. Urogi, Karaku, and Sekido then regroup and gaze over their opponents, planning on dealing the final blow.
In the depths of the forest, Muichiro Tokito defeats a fish Demon and saves Kozo Kanamori, who is happy to see him and Kotetsu safe. After the reunion, Muichiro requests for Kozo to provide him with his fixed blade to replace the chipped one he is currently using. Kozo agrees that Muichiro needs a new blade and mentions that it was Tanjiro who asked him to fix the old blade.
Gyokko emerges from his pot.
He leads the Mist Hashira and Kotetsu to the shed where Hotaru Haganezuka is currently working and expresses gratefulness that there weren't any fish Demons nearby. Kozo explains that he has a sword for Muichiro in the shed and after he receives it, he should immediately head back to the village to protect the chief. Muichiro denies this proposal and pulls Kozo back when he tries to advance towards the shed. He tells him he senses something and sees a pot rattle. Gyokko, the Upper Rank 5, comes out and identifies Muichiro as a Hashira for realizing he was there and faces the trio.
Gyokko introduces himself to Muichiro Tokito, Kozo Kanamori, and Kotetsu and asks for a moment before he kills them. He presents his “art” piece titled “Death Throes of the Smiths,” consisting of multiple mangled swordsmiths with blades pierced through their bodies. The Demon starts describing the details of his work while a horrified Kozo and Kotetsu name the swordsmiths. Gyokko taunts them by their reactions and twists one of the swords, resulting in one of the swordsmiths screaming out in pain.
Muichiro protects Kozo and Kotetsu from the needles.
Aggravated by his demonstration, Muichiro attacks Gyokko but he retreats into his pot before the Hashira cuts him. He reappears in another pot on the shed’s roof and Muichiro notes his ability to switch between the pots, then slices up the one on the roof. Gyokko swiftly switches to yet another pot—appearing out of thin air on the ground—and expresses great irritation at Muichiro for destroying his artwork. The Demon summons a couple of fish Demons, which surprise Muichiro with Blood Demon Art: Thousand Needle Fish Kill and shower hundreds of sharp needles at him. The swordsman manages to dodge the first onslaught of needles, but is forced to take multiple hits from a second attack of needles to protect Kozo and Kotetsu. He tells the civilians to get away as the fish continue to attack him.
Muichiro gets trapped by Gyokko's Blood Demon Art.
Gyokko stands on the side and laughs at Muichiro's appearance which consists of multiple needles sticking out of him. He reveals that the needles contain poison and chides him for having to die because he saved insignificant people. Gyokko's words spark a sense of familiarity to Muichiro as he tries to remember where he had heard them before, suddenly recalling a hot summer day in a small abode.
Mitsuri rushes to the village.
The Demon expresses his eagerness to create a nice sculpture with a Hashira, but is interrupted by Muichiro attacking him. Gyokko uses Blood Demon Art: Water Prison Pot to surround his opponent with a pot-shaped prison of water, rendering him unable to breathe or attack as his blade could not pierce through the layer. He laughs at his predicament and proclaims the Twelve Kizuki's desire to weaken the Demon Slayers and reach Kagaya Ubuyashiki.
A crow caws through the night as Mitsuri Kanroji runs through the forest. She tells herself to hurry and enthusiastically states the convenience of the Swordsmith Village being close to where she was stationed.
A swordsmith rings the village's alarm to announce the arrival of the fish Demons and instructs the civilians to defend themselves, right before being consumed by a Demon. Elsewhere in the village, a group of swordsmiths try to defend themselves as a fish Demon approaches them. Mitsuri Kanroji arrives and slashes the Demon, killing it. She apologizes for her late arrival and heads towards the chief's residence.
Mitsuri attacks the fish Demon.
At Tecchin's location, a swordsmith tries to save him from being crushed by a fish Demon, but his injuries render him unable to move. Mitsuri appears before him and instructs him to stay still to prevent his injuries from becoming worse. The Love Hashira then attacks with Love Breathing, First Form: Shivers of First Love, slicing the Demon and making it release the chief. After defeating it, Mitsuri angrily mutters how those who hurt others will never make her heart throb.
As Tecchin falls from the Demon's grasp, she manages to catch him before he hits the ground. Crying, she begs him to wake up and, after a few coughs, he comments on how he was caught by someone cute. Relieved to see that he was alright, Mitsuri quickly goes to help the others that were wounded.
Nezuko uses her Blood Demon Art to set Tanjiro's sword on fire.
Tanjiro Kamado suddenly wakes up to hear the voices of Hantengu's various forms. He looks to see Nezuko Kamado carrying him through the building as she dodges bolts of lightning, and Tanjiro remembers they were previously knocked unconscious. They get hit with a shock of lightning and Tanjiro defends Nezuko and himself from Urogi's swoop, running out of the room. Sekido yells at Karaku for being too slow and tells him to use his uchiwa fan and destroy the building, to which he complies.
The pressure from Karaku's fan attack makes the building collapse with Nezuko caught under the debris. She grasps on Tanjiro's blade, making herself bleed while Tanjiro begs her to let go and that he will find a way to move the rubble. She refuses to stop holding the blade and uses her Blood Demon Art to set it on fire. Tanjiro notices the blade burning from the heat, and is shocked to see it change color from black to red as it gets enveloped in flames.
Through an inherited memory, Tanjiro Kamado sees an unnamed man and woman comment on how a swordsman with earrings had a blade that was normally jet black but somehow turned red when he was in combat. Tanjiro links the swordsman's blade with his, noticing the similarities in their color changes and how his was thanks to Nezuko Kamado's Blood Demon Art. He pushes himself to ignore his body's fatigue and injuries and tells himself to meet the expectations of those who had helped him thus far.
Tanjiro's resemblance to the powerful swordsman.
Sekido, Karaku, and Urogi belittle Tanjiro and rush towards him to attack, but they see the red sword and Muzan Kibutsuji's memories trigger. The forms recognize the red sword as the one used by the Demon Slayer that nearly killed their master and, as Tanjiro swings his sword back, his motions greatly resemble those of the swordsman. Stunned, the three forms are then all slashed with the Hinokami Kagura: Sun Halo Dragon Head Dance.
Tanjiro using Sun Halo Dragon Head Dance.
After decapitating them, Tanjiro recognizes the fiery sensation when cutting down the three Demons as the same one he felt when he dealt the final blow to Gyutaro at the Entertainment District. He goes to look for Hantengu's last form, Aizetsu, and sees him impaled to a tree with his own spear as Genya Shinazugawa stands in front of him, holding the Demon's head. Tanjiro's relief over Genya's safety and the defeat of Aizetsu quickly switches to horror as Genya turns to reveal a demonfied face. His thoughts are interrupted by a yelling Karaku, who complains about his inability to regenerate and the burning sensation in his wounds.
Genya's demonfied face.
Tanjiro feels uncertain if defeating the four emotion Demons is the correct way to finish off the Upper Rank, and, at that moment, he smells a fifth body. He tries to think of how to find it but Genya grabs him, declaring that he will be the one to defeat the Upper Rank and become a Hashira, not Tanjiro. Realizing that Genya has not succumbed to Demon instincts, Tanjiro and Nezuko give full support of his goal much to Genya's surprise.
Their conversation abruptly ends when Sekido blasts lightning towards them. Tanjiro splits up with Genya and Nezuko to rush off and find the fifth body so Genya can be the one to behead him. He rushes around and desperately searches, finally spotting the body cowering and quivering behind a bushes as it quietly mutters encouragement to himself and that the emotion Demons would defeat the slayers.
Tanjiro Kamado gives directions to Genya Shinazugawa about where to find the fifth form of Hantengu and asks Nezuko Kamado to provide him assistance. He is then nearly swept away by Karaku's wind attack. Nezuko attempts to slash Sekido before he can release lightning on her brother, but she gets impaled by Aizetsu's spear. Tanjiro hinders Sekido's movement by cutting off his hand holding the staff, and the Demon notes Tanjiro's exceptional battle adaptation skills.
Karaku forces Tanjiro into the ground.
Urogi is slashed by the flaming blade and Nezuko grabs Aizetsu, enveloping him in fire and burning him. Karaku counters Tanjiro by slamming his fan and forcing Tanjiro to the ground with pressure. However, before he can attack again, his arm falls off and he curses Tanjiro for cutting it.
Genya discovers Hantengu's fifth body.
Genya receives more directions from Tanjiro as the latter yells them out, and he desperately keeps searching for the fifth body. After more continuous searching, Genya spots Hantengu behind the bushes shrunk down. He shoots him with his gun, but the Demon dodges and runs away. While pursuing him, Genya inwardly chastises the Demon's wimpy nature and swings at his neck with his Nichirin Sword. He pushes himself to force the blade through Hantengu's neck, but the sword suddenly snaps due to the Demon's thick neck. He tries shooting again with his gun again to no avail. All of a sudden, Sekido appears behind Genya and aims his staff at his neck. Distressed, Genya remarks that he can't regenerate his head and is about to die. Before he gets struck, he thinks of his elder brother, Sanemi Shinazugawa, and states how he wanted to become a Hashira so he could apologize to him for something that had happened between them.
Genya and Sanemi's mother attacks her family after turning into a Demon.
Genya Shinazugawa thinks back to his past, where his small and weak mother would often be abused by his father alongside himself and his siblings. One night, Genya notices that she was late coming back even after their older brother, Sanemi Shinazugawa, went to look for her. He calms his siblings and tells them to sleep, but they suddenly hear a knock on the door. Genya tries to tell them not to open it in case it was a stranger, but they ignore his word and are immediately slashed upon reaching it. Genya is also cut across the cheek, and he stares in horror at a figure grasping onto the ceiling with the darkness preventing him from identifying it. Suddenly, Sanemi appears and tackles it out the window while yelling at Genya to run.
Sanemi after killing his Demon-turned mother.
Terrified, Genya checks the status of his siblings and tries to cover their wounds, despite their bodies already being cold. When he runs off to find a doctor, he approaches an injured Sanemi standing over the corpse of their demonfied mother. Dismayed at the sight, Genya runs over to cradle his mother's body in his arms and cries, calling Sanemi a murderer.
Genya, after remembering this past, internally apologizes to his older brother for his shock that overwhelmed him to the point of labeling Sanemi as their mother's killer, even despite the struggles that he must've had to protect him by killing her. He recalls an earlier, happier moment with him where they both agreed to defend their mother and siblings as brothers after the death of their abusive father.
As Sekido aims for Genya's neck, the Demon Slayer thinks of all his regrets and flaws. A memory of Sanemi as a Hashira declaring that he had no brother saddens Genya, and he thinks about how he wasn't able to reach Hashira status to earn the right of apologizing to him.
Genya shields Tanjiro from Aizetsu's Blood Demon Art.
Right as Sekido scrapes Genya's neck with his staff, Tanjiro Kamado appears above them and saves him by cutting Sekido's neck. He shouts at Genya to not give up, reminding him that he was supposed to be reaching for the goal of Hashira and that he should only think about beheading Hantengu. As Tanjiro finishes speaking, he notices Aizetsu approaching him from behind. The Demon uses its Blood Demon Art, Weeping Spears to attack Tanjiro, but the swordsman is shielded by Genya, who gets impaled at multiple spots on his body. Genya tells Tanjiro that he should be the one to behead Hantengu and Tanjiro accepts, dashing over to Hantengu and hitting him with his flaming sword. Upon being struck, Hantengu lets out a piercing scream.
Tanjiro Kamado puts pressure on his blade and attempts to force it through Hantengu’s neck. The Demon continues his high-pitched screeching, but Tanjiro refuses to waver. Suddenly, a dark figure appears behind them, and Tanjiro notices that it does not smell like any of the previous emotion Demons. Opting to ignore it, he keeps trying to behead Hantengu but his sword loses its power from Nezuko Kamado. Genya Shinazugawa aims at the figure behind Tanjiro, but he is unable to shoot without possibly hitting his teammate.
The sixth Demon.
The mysterious Demon hits a drum and a giant, dragon-faced tree immediately sprouts. Nezuko barely manages to jump in and save her brother, losing her leg in the process. She immediately regrows it right before they land but suffers a great loss of energy. As Tanjiro makes sure she is safe, the Demon begins talking and names the negative emotions that individuals who are pure evil emit, specifically those that harm the weak. Infuriated, Tanjiro realizes that there are now six Demons but notices he can’t sense the previous four. Genya witnesses the appearance of the sixth Demon and alarmingly recounts how it used to be the anger Demon, Sekido. However, after Tanjiro struck Hantengu’s neck, Sekido had forcefully absorbed his three counterparts and transformed into the child-like Demon in front of them.
Hantengu's ability to grow stronger the worser the situation.
The Demon hits another drum and wraps Hantengu with tree trunks, shielding him. Tanjiro tries to stop him, but he and Genya are both held back at the pure strength of the sixth Demon’s aura, a result of Hantengu’s power growing as his situation worsens. The Demon labels them as ‘evil’ and when Tanjiro demands an explanation as to why, he replies that the label is reserved to those who try to hurt the weak. Furious at his words contradicting the fact that he had eaten hundreds of innocent humans, Tanjiro loudly vows to cut him down.
Muichiro uses Low Clouds, Distant Haze in an attempt to break out of the pot.
Still trapped in Gyokko's Water Prison Pot, Muichiro Tokito thinks to himself that he has enough air for one attack, proceeding to use Mist Breathing, First Form: Low Clouds, Distant Haze. His attempt is unsuccessful and, without any more air in his lungs, he accepts his fate, thanking Kagaya Ubuyashiki for his support and wishes him luck finding someone to replace his Hashira position. However, he is surprised by a vision of Tanjiro Kamado who tells him that nobody knows what the future will be like, a statement Tanjiro had never said to him.
Hotaru's mask breaks and falls off, revealing his face.
In the nearby shed, Kozo Kanamori gets slashed by Gyokko as he desperately shields Hotaru Haganezuka from the Demon. Unaware of their presence, Hotaru fixates himself on restoring the blade given to him by Tanjiro and mutters about the incredible quality of its craftsmanship. Gyokko observes him, confirming that he is not the chief due to his age. The Demon calls out to him, but Hotaru does not respond and continues muttering about the eccentricity of the blade, a level of concentration that astonishes Gyokko. Jealous of Hotaru's fixation for his craft, Gyokko slashes him multiple times and summons another fish Demon that attacks Kozo. Hotaru continues to ignore him as his mask falls off from the attack, revealing his face, and Kozo rushes to try and snap him out of his trance. Gyokko vows to break the swordsmith's continuous persistence.
Kotetsu attempting to break the pot and save Muichiro.
Outside, Muichiro slowly loses his ability to breathe. Tanjiro's vision keeps appearing in front of him and expresses how Muichiro himself would decide his own fate. Muichiro dismisses his word, but Tanjiro continues and informs the Mist Hashira that someone would come save him. Although he tries to disclose his distaste for relying on someone else, the vision of Tanjiro tells him that he sometimes has to rely on others as he cannot do everything on his own.
Muichiro listens to his remark and berates himself for not working hard enough to prevent mistakes from happening and, additionally, for overestimating himself. Suddenly, a knife enters the water and Kotetsu begs Muichiro to not die as he futilely struggles to pierces the prison. Muichiro tries to get him to go protect the chief rather than worry about him, but Kotetsu persistently keeps trying. One of Gyokko's minions appears behind the child and slashes at him; as he runs, the Demon uses its claw to stab Kotetsu at his solar plexus. Seeing this attack on his vital point, Muichiro deems the boy dead.
Kotetsu blows in a breath of air.
However, Kotetsu stays standing and returns back to the water, blowing air into it and transferring a breath from him to Muichiro. As Muichiro inhales the air, he remembers Tanjiro's words about how helping others would in turn help him and connects his words to a man, Muichiro's father. Freshly motivated, the Hashira uses Mist Breathing, Second Form: Eight-Layered Mist and successfully destroys the water prison.
Muichiro makes it out of the pot.
As he escapes the prison, Muichiro Tokito realizes that Tanjiro Kamado's eyes are the same shade of red as his father's. Muichiro pulls out the needles numbing his face and begins regaining more of his memories, remembering that his father was a woodcutter. Kagaya Ubuyashiki's soothing words enter his mind and he sorrowfully thinks about his master's disease as he crawls to Kotetsu, cutting apart the fish Demon that had attacked him. Muichiro's memory progression continues as he recalls his mother's death from illness and his father's death from falling off a cliff. When he tries to speak with Kotetsu, Muichiro suddenly remembers about his older twin brother, Yuichiro Tokito, his sole companion after their parents' death until they were eleven.
Muichiro's past with his older twin brother, Yuichiro.
Thinking back to his past, Muichiro recalls Yuichiro's blunt personality after they were orphaned and how he ridiculed their father for trying to save their mother, a man who had died when aiming to help others. Crying, Muichiro unsuccessfully attempted to get Yuichiro to stop insulting their father and instead received insults from him regarding the first character in his name, "Mu" (無, "Mu"?), which could be interpreted as "nothingness." The twins continued to live together despite their strained relationship, which Muichiro had attributed to his older brother potentially despising him.
After surviving on their own for a while, the siblings were visited by Kagaya's wife, Amane Ubuyashiki, who had told them about their swordsmen heritage. Angered by her presence, Yuichiro drove her away and intensely berated Muichiro after he had expressed his interest in becoming a swordsman, straining their relationship to the point of forfeiting any communication between them.
Muichiro's Demon Slayer Mark appears.
One summer night, a Demon entered the twins' home, cutting off Yuichiro's left arm and insulting the siblings' lack of worth, angering Muichiro to the point of releasing explosive rage. The boy managed to pin the Demon and crush it, watching it disintegrate as the sun rose. Crawling back to Yuichiro, Muichiro witnessed his brother's final words begging the gods to spare Muichiro as he was a good person that desired to help others, unlike himself. As Muichiro held his brother's hand, he told him that the "mu" (無, "mu"?) in his name was actually meant to represent the "mu" in "infinity" (無限, mugen?).
Finally recovering his memories, Muichiro awakens his true strength and gains mist-like markings over his face as he powerfully grips his blade.
Yuichiro Tokito apologizes to his brother for his inability to be nice to him and that he truly tried to protect him, clutching his hand as his memories are shifted back to reality.
Hotaru's continuous persistence.
In the shed, Gyokko is infuriated to see Hotaru Haganezuka continuing to work on the blade despite the numerous injuries he had inflicted on him, including the loss of an eye. On the side, Kozo Kanamori struggles to move and Gyokko goes to finish him off, but he is interrupted by Muichiro Tokito's attack, narrowly dodging it. Surprised at his escape from the water prison, Gyokko sees the strange markings on his face and realizes it is similar to the mark on the boy with the hanafuda earrings that Muzan Kibutsuji had told him about. The boy's composed face and attack speed despite being struck with paralyzing needles earlier bothers the Demon as Muichiro rushes in to attack again. Anticipating it, Gyokko uses his Blood Demon Art, Octopus Vase Hell. Octopus legs fill the shed and trap Muichiro as they destroy the building. At the last moment, Kozo gives Muichiro his mended Nichirin Sword.
Muichiro thanks Kozo.
Outside, Hotaru is knocked aside from the attack but pays no mind to it as he returns to sharpening the blade, his stubborn persistence puzzling the Demon. Gyokko opts to temporarily ignore the swordsmith and instead focuses on Muichiro as he wraps him and Kozo with his attack, exclaiming that he will crush them. Despite Gyokko's claim that the octopus is too powerful to be cut, Muichiro cleanly slices through it and releases him and Kozo. Brandishing his new blade, Muichiro thanks the swordsmith though Kozo denies, stating that he simply followed the instruction of his previous swordsmith.
Muichiro talking with Tetsuido.
Muichiro thinks back to a conversation with his aforementioned swordsmith, the late Tetsuido, when he had expressed deep concern for his client after learning of how hard he worked and how difficult it was for him to cope with his memory loss. Internally apologizing to him for causing worry, Muichiro tells Tetsuido that he is alright now and proceeds to use Mist Breathing, Fifth Form: Sea of Clouds and Haze to cut apart the rest of the octopus's tentacles.
Gyokko watches him and praises him for his speed, but retorts that the swordsman would not be able to catch up to his pace. However, Muichiro refutes his word and suggests the Demon's senses have become sluggish and a confused Gyokko witnesses his neck get cut from the Hashira's previous attack. Angered, Gyokko tells him not to underestimate his strength.
The chapter begins with Muichiro talking with Gyokko about what will happen if he cuts off Gyokko's head. Muichiro said his rival's looks and words are absolutely disgusting, but it becomes very serious when Muchiro insults Gyokko's pot, causing Gyokko to become extremely angry.
Afterwards, the fight begins. Gyokko uses Blood Demon Art: Ten Thousand Gliding Slime-Fish, which his aim is to make Muichiro have 10,000 gliding fish feast on his body until he will become nothing but bones.
Muichiro using Sixth Form: Lunar Dispersing Mist.
But the Mist Hashira dodges it easily. Muichiro then uses the Mist Breathing: Sixth Form - Lunar Dispersing Mist in order to cut all the fish that Gyokko releases. But the fish have already successfully spread the poison, so Gyokko has a seldom moment to ensure that Muichiro will soon be knocked out. To Gyokko's surprise, Muichiro uses the Mist Breathing: Third Form - Scattering Mist Splash and blows out all of the poison. After Muichiro has made a cut through the demon's body, he realizes at that moment, Gyokko appears on a tree near them with a whole new form and states that Muichiro is the 3rd person to see it. But contrary to Gyokko's expectations, Muichiro doesn't react a thing to his new form, which makes Gyokko filled with rage. Gyokko then creates a hit towards Muichiro, which includes fish. Thereafter, he notices that Muichiro is already sitting on a tree. (There's a panel that shows Kozo Kanamori and Hotaru Haganezuka got blasted away). Gyokko asks Muichiro what he thinks of his speed and his godlike power, and praises himself while Muichiro stayed silent. After Gyokko has finished his monologue about his "perfect beauty", Muichiro finished with a quote: "You can be as flashy as you like, but it's all useless if you can't touch me."
Muichiro reminds himself and urges himself to remember the seething rage he felt when he watched his brother and himself become infested with maggots, slowly being eaten. Recall the rage he has against demons for killing his brother. Recall the rage and remember why he became a demon slayer. "It was to exterminate the demons. To utterly destroy all of them!" Muichirou thinks. Gyokko then praises himelf in his "beautiful and sincere seriousness" before using his Blood Demon Art, Killer Fish Scales. Gyokko says that his scales make it unable to predict his movements and thinks that "it's over" for Muichiro. But Muichiro uses the Mist Breathing, Seventh Form: Obscuring Clouds to disorient the enemy. He then appears and seems to vanish when Gyokko attacks. Gyokko is confused and looks around for the slayer, only to find that the whole place is enveloped in mist. Muichiro then appears, uttering a cocky comment saying he hadn't been serious before like Gyokko before cutting the demon's head off. Gyokko is confused as to why everything is upside down as his head falls to the ground. But he is then enraged and in disbelief when he realized he's been beheaded by a mere child. It is then revealed that Muichiro drastically changed the speed of his movements to disorient the enemy and that when the boy wants to, he can go really slow or really fast. His highest speed exceeds Gyokko's. Gyokko then starts a monologue about how he is a chosen one and how humans are inferior. He's about to call Muichiro a maggot, but before he can his head is sliced to bits. The chapter ends with Muichiro saying, "That's enough. Just go to hell already."
Muichiro's blood gets poisoned.
After defeating Gyokko of the Twelve Kizuki, Muichiro Tokito is approached by Kozo Kanamori who is concerned for his well being. Despite trying to reassure him that he is fine and to check on the others, Muichiro begins to foam at the mouth revealing that his blood was  poisoned by Gyokko and he proceeds to fall unconscious. Kozo begins to panic and calls out to Haganezuka for help, who never comes.
Kotetsu appears from behind him in the forest and instructs Kozo to turn him on his side, scaring him in the process. Kozo is surprised to see the young boy standing before him, and asks how he's still alive despite the massive amount of blood loss. Kotetsu explains that the blood from his arm smeared onto his stomach, but he was protected from any fatal injury due to the hilt that Tanjiro had entrusted to him for his katana. Muichiro regains subtle consciousness and sees the hilt which belonged  to the late Kyojuro Rengoku, causing tears to well in his eyes. Apparitions of his deceased mother, father, and brother appear all around him, congratulating him for his hard work.
Elsewhere in the forest, Tanjiro can be seen struggling to defeat Zohakuten's wooden dragon heads. He attempts to injure one of the heads using the Hinokami Kagura: Clear Blue Sky but the dragon utilizes a sound attack which causes Tanjiro to collapse and his ear drums to burst. As the dragon head launches another attack towards Tanjiro, he attempts to dodge but his foot is left injured in the process. The dragon head leaves him with no chance to escape and approaches quickly, latching onto Tanjiro's wrist before he can defend himself.
Mitsuri saves Tanjiro from being crushed.
Nezuko and Genya watch helplessly unable to come to Tanjiro's aid as the dragon head begins to come down on him, crushing him in the process. However within moments, the dragon head is split in half and is subtly destroyed as a squeal of disgust can be heard in the night. Mitsuri Kanroji can be seen leaping in the air while carrying Tanjiro on her back to safety, while apologizing for her tardiness. Stunned by her appearance, Tanjiro warns her to be careful of the demon she's about to face since he is a member of the Twelve Kizuki, but she pays him no mind and proceeds to scold the demon instructing him to return Nezuko and Genya.
Zohakuten insults Mitsuri by calling her a shameless tramp.
Unfazed by the arrival of the  Hashira, Zohakuten proceeds to insult Mitsuri by calling her the “shameless tramp”, for trying to order him around. Mitsuri stares at the demon with disgust after being called a shameless tramp and is offended by the insult. She compares him to her younger brother in a comical sense and is appalled by his behavior. Zohakuten begins to launch his attack against Mitsuri using the Crazed Cry of Thunder Death to attack her, but she is able to defend herself using Love Breathing : Third From - Catlove Shower to negate his attack. Mitsuri becomes annoyed with Zohakuten's sudden attack and leaves him surprised with her ability to stop his attack.
Zohakuten prepares to kill Mitsuri with his fist.
The chapter starts by explaining that Mitsuri's sword is very thin and soft. It is extremely hard to handle and only made for her use. It then cuts back to the fight, where Mitsuri uses her Love Breathing, Second Form: Love Pangs and Love Breathing, Sixth Form: Cat-Legged Winds of Love consecutively. Zohakuten notices that she's keeping up with his speed and decides to put her down with a technique. He then uses his Blood Demon Art: Countless Striking Trees, but Mitsuri uses her Love Breathing, Fifth Form: Swaying Love, Wildclaw to cut through the attack, reaching Zohakuten's body. Tanjiro sees this and shouts to her that Zohakuten is not Hantengu's real body. Zohakuten then releases his Blood Demon Art: Compressed Sound Waves, Mitsuri has no choice but to face the attack head-on. Mitsuri is paralyzed and loses consciousness, but survives the attack. Zohakuten realizes that Mitsuri has immense strength, then decides that he is going to eat her before throwing a fist at her head. Mitsuri's life flashes before her eyes as Hantengu's fist is about to land.
It starts with Mitsuri's first fiance telling her that only a bear, boar, or cow would take her as their wife. He also insults her hair color and says that it makes him shudder just to think about it being passed onto his children. He tells her to forget about him and the fact that their marriage interview ever even happened. That marriage was called off - she was 17 at the time. It then explains that Mitsuri has a special muscle composition. Her arms are thin and look weak, but her muscle density is eight times a regular human's. At fourteen months old she was able to pick up a 33-pound pickling stone. She also ate a lot. She had an almost insatiable appetite, eating almost the same amount as three sumo wrestlers. The day her marriage was called off, she decided to hide all of her peculiar traits. One day a man appeared and said he wanted to marry her.
Mitsuri is snapped back to reality when Tanjiro, Nezuko, and Genya manage to save her from Zohakuten's fist. Tanjiro says that Mitsuri is their last hope, encouraging her to get back up and fight. Zohakuten releases another attack, however, Mitsuri cuts through his attack protecting the four of them. The chapter ends with Mitsuri screaming at Zohakuten, "I won't lose to evil people. Now get your butts ready! It's time to get serious!"
In a flashback, Kagaya compliments Mitsuri by saying she is a special person chosen by the gods and she should be proud of her own strength, informing her that whoever talks bad about it has jealousy. Mitsuri sincerely thanks her father and mother, all the Demon Slayers who took her in, all the people she protected, and Obanai for giving her striped socks. She rethinks how she wondered if it was okay to be strong because she was a girl and realizes that she herself suppressed her strength out of fear, she's isn't anymore. She is driven to protect the people.
She cuts through Zohakuten's attack and urges herself to get stronger. Tanjiro, Genya, and Nezuko start looking for Hantengu's main body while Mitsuri deals with Zohakuten. Zohakuten notices the trio looking for the main body and tries releasing an attack their way, but it's cut down by Mitsuri before it can reach them. Mitsuri is moving faster than before and Zohakuten doesn't know how. He then notices a mark on her clavicle. Zohakuten releases another attack, but Mitsuri easily cuts through it.
Genya, Tanjiro, and Nezuko are fighting a tree that is being controlled by Hantengu and has his real body in it, but they can't cut it when their arms are occupied holding onto the tree. Genya has no choice, but to eat the tree. It is then revealed that Genya cannot use breaths and has the special ability to temporarily inherit the traits of the demon if he eats its flesh. The top part of the tree falls to the ground after Genya eats a lower part of the plant, cutting through the trunk of the tree. Tanjiro then attempts to cut the tree up, but the branches are like whips. Nezuko sets the tree and Tanjiro's sword on fire with her blood and Tanjiro uses Hinokami Kagura: Flame Waltz to cut the tree in half to reach the hollow inside where Hantengu's main body is, but he's already gone and is running away in the forest.
Tanjiro screams at the demon that he will make him pay for every sin he has committed. Hantengu remembers the magistrate saying that everything he does is his responsibility, but he believes he hasn't done anything wrong in his entire life. Then Genya throws a tree at him.
The chapter begins with Nezuko and Tanjiro ducking as Genya angrily rips out a tree from the roots and throws it at Hantengu. Despite ripping out numerous trees, each one fails to accurately hit Hantengu, Nezuko then emerges and attempts to quickly swipe at Hantengu, but he evades her and quickly speeds off.
Thinking of what to do, Tanjiro recalls a conversation he had with Zenitsu regarding Total Concentration. He circulates air throughout the fibers in his muscles and the blood in his veins and is able to quickly blast towards Hantengu in an instant.
As Tanjiro tries to behead him, Hantengu rhetorically asks him if Tanjiro feels bad for him and then suddenly grows in size and chokes Tanjiro while Genya and Nezuko rush in and try to help Tanjiro, Genya tries to pull Tanjiro free while Nezuko leaps into the air and uses her Blood Demon Art, Genya manages to rip Hantengu's arms off but panics about getting burned as he ate demon flesh. Hantengu, Nezuko, and Tanjiro fall over a cliff.
While Nezuko lays motionless next to him, Hantengu, armless with Tanjiro's sword stuck in his neck, gets up, stating that his regeneration is slowing down because he's used up too much power and needs to consume more human flesh, which he senses nearby. Tanjiro, who has fallen on a branch along the ledge above him, exclaims he will not allow Hantengu to escape and he will chase him "down to the depths of hell." While going towards some nearby villagers, Hantengu comments that Nezuko was the worst nuisance of the three.
Tanjiro falls off of the branch, and begins to give chase, thinking to use the technique he used previously to quickly blast towards and initially catch up to Hantengu. As he is running towards Hantengu, the sword Hotaru Haganezuka had been sharpening was thrown and suddenly landed in front of him while Muichiro Tokito yells from the ledge to use the sword, all while Hotaru screams his objections about the sword still being unfinished and Kozo Kanamori attempting to hold him back. Tanjiro thanks Tokito, grabs the sword, and activates Sun Breathing enveloping the sword in flames, and beheads Hantengu using the move Waltz Flash to catch up and decapitate him.
The first light of dawn signals daybreak. Tanjiro realizes this and tries to tell Nezuko to go hide in the shade, but his voice doesn't come out, causing Nezuko to run his way in worry. He yells at Nezuko to go hide in the shade, but then notices that Hantengu's decapitated body is still moving and attacking the villagers. There is "Resentment" written on the tongue of the body's head, where there should be the word "fear", meaning that the body that Tanjiro decapitated was not the real one.
Before Tanjiro can take any action to find the real body, the rays of light from the rising Sun reach Nezuko. She starts to burn. Tanjiro shields her with his body and tells her to shrink smaller, but she is still getting burned. All the others are too far away to help him and Hantengu's body will get the villagers before he can put Nezuko in the box and save them. Nezuko kicks him in the direction of the villagers and smiles at him as she sacrifices herself for the villagers' sake.
Tanjiro cries as he decides that he needs to find the real body, running in the direction of the fake body. He starts by sniffing out the real body, finding that it's in the fake body's heart. The fake body has caught the villagers, but Tanjiro cuts its arm off before it can hurt them. Memories from Hantengu's previous human life flash before his eyes just before Tanjiro slices his head off.
Tanjiro collapses on the ground in sadness and exhaustion. He won, but he sacrificed his sister to do it. But the villagers shake him and point in the direction behind him. Standing in the Sun, healed and uninjured is Nezuko. Tanjiro stares in disbelief. "M-M-Morning," his sister says.
Tamayo and Yushiro observing Chachamaru departing to find Tanjiro.
The chapter starts with the narration of Tamayo's letter to Tanjiro. In the letter she thanks him for giving her the blood of demons of the Twelve Kizuki and Nezuko. Using the samples she created an antidote that allows demons to regain consciousness and which she successfully tested on one of Muzan's victims. She tells him that the components of Nezuko's blood changed in a very short span of time and explains that she thinks the reason Nezuko hasn't been able to regain her consciousness and is still acting like a child is because she has been prioritizing something else. She says that she thinks Nezuko will soon be able to conquer the Sun.
Mitsuri cries tears of relief as Zohakuten disintegrates to dust.
It cuts back to Nezuko and Tanjiro. Tanjiro shakes and cries tears of happiness as he asks Nezuko if she has become human again, but her only response is echoing his words. Tanjiro realizes that even though she is standing in the Sun, she still has fangs and the eyes of a demon. Tanjiro is in disbelief that she is fine and hugs Nezuko and cries. Nezuko pats his head and smiles. Genya watches the display and smiles too. Tanjiro soon passes out due to exhaustion and in the distance Mitsuri screams loses strength just as the body of Hantengu she was fighting disintegrates to dust. Mitsuri falls to the ground and cries tears of joy, exclaiming that they must have cut Hantengu's head off.
The Blue Spider Lily.
In another place, a maid and Muzan's "mother" walk in on Muzan, disguised as a child, cackling in glee before brutally obliterating the head of his "mother". The maid stares at Muzan in horror as he talks about how there is no more need for the Blue Spider Lily when all he needs to do is find Nezuko and devour her. Then he can conquer the Sun. As he reverts to his adult form, Muzan mercilessly murders the maid while she tries to run away from him.
We now see the explanation as to why Muzan wanted this Blue Spider Lily so much. There was once a generous doctor that turned Muzan into a demon. Muzan had been angry that he would not live longer than twenty due to his worsening sickness even though he had suffered so much just to live only a little bit longer. So he killed the doctor. But after killing him he realized that the medicine the doctor had given him had made him stronger. He had obtained a strong body, but he couldn't walk in the Sun. Angered by this he tried to make the medicine, but he didn't have the Blue Spider Lily flower that had been used to make it. He searched and searched and searched for the blue Spider Lily flower, but he found nothing. The only person who knew where it was was the doctor he had killed. Muzan had wanted the perfect immortal body and now that Nezuko had conquered the Sun, all the battles will be centered around her. And they will be ever bloodier than before.
Muichiro thanks Tanjiro for helping him get something important back and the chapter ends with a happy reunion hug initiated by Mitsuri with Nezuko, Tanjiro, Muichiro, Genya, and Kotetsu grateful that no one had died.
