Tanjiro stops Zenitsu.
The sparrow of the yellow-haired Demon Slayer begs for Tanjiro's help. He grabs him and pulls him away from the girl, asking if he cannot see she wants nothing to do with him. Suddenly, the boy notices that Tanjiro is also wearing a Demon Slayer Corps uniform. Tanjiro denies knowing him but the stranger remembers him from Final Selection.
Tanjiro pulling a girl off Zenitsu.
Tanjiro ignores him and tells the girl he was harassing that it was alright for her to return home, and she thanks him. Panicking, he yells that she couldn't leave as she "liked" him and they had to be married. He is responded to with a slap from her, and she starts beating him, prompting Tanjiro to hurry over and pull her off, asking her to calm down. She berates the stranger, stating that she never liked him and only talked to him because she thought he was wounded or sick when he lied on the side of the road. Shocked, he replies that he thought she was helping him out of love and worry. The girl angrily mentions it was impossible as she has a fiancé, stomping away and telling him he appeared fine now and hoped they would never met again.
Tanjiro chiding Zenitsu for his lack of shame.
Heartbroken, the Demon Slayer complains to Tanjiro about his interference, in which he receives a disgusted face as a reply. He demands him to not use that face as it looked like he was looking at him as some sort of creature, before blaming him for preventing his "marriage." Again, Tanjiro only replies with the same face, much to his annoyance. He claims that he is about to die as he was weak, begging Tanjiro to protect him before he got married. Tanjiro doesn't respond and introduces himself, to which the Demon Slayer introduces himself as Zenitsu Agatsuma. Tanjiro starts chiding Zenitsu for his lack of shame, in which he replies that he was deceived by a woman and indebted, saved by his master but forced to train harshly every day, sorrowfully stating his dislike for his occupation. Tanjiro gives him his lunch and tells him he understands, but he should cause less trouble for his sparrow.
Tanjiro and Zenitsu arrive at the Tsuzumi Mansion.
Both Demon Slayers arrive at Tanjiro's assigned mission, a mansion in a mountain forest. Tanjiro smells blood from inside and Zenitsu hears an unusual sound, before they see two children huddled together at the edge of the forest. They try to approach them, but the children move away in fright. Noticing the fact that they were likely still in shock from something, Tanjiro entertains them with Zenitsu's sparrow, calming them down. The older child, tells Tanjiro that their older brother was kidnapped when they were walking in the night, and the kidnapper went into the house. Tanjiro praises him and his sister for following the monster, but the boy cries and said they followed his blood trail, upset that their older brother was hurt. Tanjiro soothes them and said he would defeat the monster and save their brother, much to their relief.
Zenitsu asking if Tanjiro can hear something.
Zenitsu suddenly retorts hearing a sound similar to a drum, expressing discomfort. Tanjiro replies that he couldn't hear a sound but is interrupted by a man flying out of the window, falling onto the ground. Tanjiro rushes over to check on him, alarmed at his deep wound. The man says he finally got out and asks if he was going to die, in which Tanjiro can only respond to with a hug. All of a sudden, a large sound comes out of the house, coming from a strange demon.
Tanjiro giving Zenitsu a spiteful look.
Tanjiro distraughtly realizes the man that fell out of the house is now dead, upset at the amount of pain he must've felt. The older child tells him their brother was wearing a persimmon-colored kimino and the man that had just perished was not him. Tanjiro internally apologizes to the deceased man, promising to give him a burial when he returns. He calls for Zenitsu to join him on the mission to defeat the demon in the house, but after looking at Zenitsu's distressed face, angrily goes on alone. Scared by Tanjiro's furious expression, Zenitsu reluctantly tags along. Before they enter the house, Tanjiro entrusts Nezuko's box to the two children, telling them that what's in the box will protect them in case of danger.
Tanjiro enters the Tsuzumi Mansion.
As the two Demon Slayers enter the house, Zenitsu trembles and confides in Tanjiro to protect him. He apologizes to him, saying he has multiple broken bones and Zenitsu cries in shock, protesting that he was no longer safe without someone to protect him despite Tanjiro's attempts to comfort him. Unexpectedly, the children run inside the house, frightened by the noises coming out of Tanjiro's box and a dismayed Tanjiro tells them they couldn't just leave it outside as it was more important than his life.
The group Tanjiro, Zenitsu, Teruko, and Shoichi accidentally get accidentally gets separated from each other.
Suddenly, the group hears a sound and accidentally gets separated , Zenitsu with the boy and Tanjiro with the girl. The latter pair is stunned to see the room change, with Tanjiro noticing how it shifted with a drum's beat. He apologizes to her for separating from her brother and vows to protect her, wiping her tears. Asking for her name, she answers she is Teruko. They hear footsteps and are shocked by the sudden presence of a giant demon in the hallway. Tanjiro immediately deciphers him to be the master of the house; his scent was the strongest and covered a broad range of the building.
Somewhere else, Zenitsu wails about his certain death while the boy, Shoichi, simultaneously calls out for Teruko. Zenitsu pulls Shoichi and tells him they should go outside, but Shoichi turns around and reprimands him for his cowardice. Zenitsu is hurt by his words and argues that children should not be involved in this situation. They make their way down the hall and through doors, but fail to find the entrance. Opening a particular set of doors, Zenitsu comes face-to-face with an individual wearing a boar hide mask. Zenitsu calls him a monster, and the individual runs out of the room and rushes through a hallway.
A Demon Slayer with a boar mask crashes through.
Elsewhere, Tanjiro covers Teruko's mouth, informing her not to scream and to hide behind the shelves. The demon then speaks, annoyed at the number of people barging into his home and ranting about "my prey". Tanjiro faces the demon head-on, introduces himself as a Demon Slayer and the one that will defeat him. It ignores him and mutters about found children with "marechi" as Tanjiro goes to attack. However, the demon suddenly beats a drum and the entire room rotates, Tanjiro speculating the change to be a result of the demon's Blood Demon Art. He senses a new smell and the boar-masked individual crashes through the wall.
Tanjiro is astonished by the presence of the masked stranger. He notices the individual wields two Nichirin Swords and witnesses his assertion of using the Drum Demon as his stepping stone to become stronger and higher-ranked, rushing forward to attack him. The demon beats its drum and the room rotates with Tanjiro yelling at Teruko to grab hold of furniture as she tumbles. The dual-wielder uses Tanjiro as a support to launch off and attack the demon as Tanjiro tells him to not act recklessly.
The stranger tramples Teruko.
He is ignored and the Drum Demon hits another drum, shifting the room which results in the boar-masked individual landing and stepping on Teruko, paying no mind to her cries and expressing enjoyment and interest in the motion of the room. Tanjiro throws the stranger off of her and hugs Teruko, angry over his lack of concern for a little girl's well-being. The masked Demon Slayer laughs and begins attacking him, praising Tanjiro for being capable of throwing him. Tanjiro shouts at him to stop as the demon is right in front of them, but he states that he didn't care and continues his assault.
Tanjiro and the stranger evade Kyogai's three slashes.
The Drum Demon suddenly hits a different drum, resulting in three quick slashes cutting the floor and interrupting the scuffle between the two Demon Slayers. Tanjiro comments on the shape of the slashes looking like claw marks, but his thoughts are cut off by the demon consecutively hitting multiple drums and rotating the room once again. He starts understanding how the movement corresponds to each drum that is hit, but he and Teruko are transported to another room before he can react.
Kiyoshi uses the tsuzumi.
Tanjiro questions the sudden change, as he didn't hear Kyogai hit a drum which could've possibly allowed for him and Teruko to move. He starts analyzing his surroundings and finds a dead body, in which the Demon Slayer quickly ushers Teruko in the other direction before she sees it. Tanjiro then smells a unique scent of blood and he opens a set of door, discovering the siblings' oldest brother Kiyoshi right before he hits a drum.
In another section of the house, Zenitsu walks while holding Shoichi's hand. Shoichi says his name and Zenitsu yells, scolding him for surprising him. The boy tells the Demon Slayer how he feels unsafe around him, especially considering how frightened Zenitsu was. He profusely apologizes and tells him that they should stay quiet to avoid being attacked by demons, just as one crawls from under the mansion's foundations and appears in front of them.
Zenitsu begging for Shoichi to run away.
Zenitsu immediately yells at the appearance of the demon, desperately telling it to stay back and that neither he nor Shoichi would taste good as they run away. It responds that he would not know how they'd taste if he didn't try, proceeding to chase and attack them. As they turn into a room, the demon tries to use its long tongue to grab them, missing and hitting a pot instead. With the room being a dead end and their exit blocked, Zenitsu begins begging for Shoichi to run away, though the boy does not deem it a wise decision. The Demon Slayer berates himself for being a coward and tries to find the courage to help save Shoichi.
As the demon enters the room, it threatens to devour his brain through his ear. This finally causes Zenitsu to become overwhelmed with fear and lose consciousness. As he slumps to the ground, Shoichi shakes him to get his attention but is shocked to see him genuinely asleep. The demon becomes confused seeing the unusual situation but does not dwell further, extending its tongue to grab Shoichi.
Zenitsu kills the Tongue Demon.
Suddenly, the demon's tongue is cut and Zenitsu stands up. As Shoichi and the demon watch in confusion, Zenitsu bows down and begins to breathe. He uses the Thunder Breathing, First Form: Thunderclap and Flash to decapitate the demon in an instant. Shoichi gapes in shock as Zenitsu quickly wakes up and screams at the sight of the dead demon's head rolling next to him. The confused Demon Slayer misunderstands the situation and expresses extreme gratitude towards Shoichi for "saving" the pair, telling him he should've let him know earlier that he was so strong. The boy is at a loss for words and decides not to say anything, telling Zenitsu they should go on.
The Horned Demon discovers the stranger.
In a hallway of the house, the boar-masked Demon Slayer runs through, annoyed by the Drum Demon blowing him away despite his attempt to hunt it down and the inconvenience of the hallway's structure. A hand suddenly appears and tries to grab him, but the swordsman ducks and faces a heavy-set demon, who praises his mobility despite being human and how he would be worthy meat. Without hesitation, the Demon Slayer jumps straight at the demon and effortlessly cuts off its arms, using his self-taught Beast Breathing, Third Fang: Devour to decapitate it. He then uses the body as a springboard and continues his way throughout the mansion, yelling "Comin' Through!"
The Drum Demon, alone in a room, mutters to himself about "marechi", stating that the power and energy given by eating humans with this blood equivalent to devouring a hundred humans. He tells himself that he needs to eat more of the rare-blooded humans in order to return to his position in the Twelve Kizuki, before rolling his right eye to reveal a mark over his former rank, Lower Rank Six.
Kyogai has his position from the Twelve Kizuki revoked.
The Drum Demon thinks back to his time as Lower Six of the Twelve Kizuki. He recalls gradually reaching his limit and becoming unable to devour more humans. One day, Muzan Kibutsuji arrived at the mansion and addressed his weakening appetite, revealing his name as Kyogai. The demon quickly asked for another chance but has his engraved eye slashed by Muzan, who became angry at his physical limit reached and stripped the Drum Demon of his position. Kyogai recalls when he had first received Muzan's blood and how he initially thought he could endlessly gain strength, only to be mistaken.
Tanjiro introducing himself to Kiyoshi
After finding Kiyoshi, Teruko runs to him as they greet each other with tears of relief. Tanjiro introduces himself as a Demon Slayer and treats Kiyoshi's wounds with medicine given to him by Sakonji Urokodaki. When asked what had happened, Kiyoshi describes how Kyogai kidnapped and tried to devour him, but was interrupted by the presence of two more demons in the mansion. The three began a scuffle, arguing over who would be the one to eat Kiyoshi, with the skirmish resulting in Kyogai's back drum being pulled out in the process. The young boy mentions how he used the drum to stay alive so far, beating it to change the rooms and avoid ambushes. Tanjiro mentions "marechi" and Kiyoshi recalls that the demon did in fact refer to him as that. Tanjiro's Kasugai Crow appears and details the meaning of "marechi": demons favored humans with this blood as they hold nutrition equal to about fifty to a hundred people and are considered a great feast.
Tanjiro suddenly hears someone approaching, Kyogai himself. Tanjiro informs the children he must leave the room to battle him and instructs the siblings to use the drum to escape, reassuring them that he was here to defeat the demon and would return. The two children nod, and he praises them for their mental fortitude as he dashes out of the room, as Kyogai peers in looking for his prey. At his signal, Tanjiro dashes out of the room and Kiyoshi beats the drum, placing themselves out of harm's way. The demon angrily refers to Tanjiro as a pest, beating the drum on his stomach twice and turning the room upside-down. Kyogai beats again and the invisible slashes nearly hit Tanjiro. The Demon Slayer begins analyzing the drums and corresponding movements but the demon beats faster, disorienting him.
Tanjiro encouraging himself.
Tanjiro recalls that Tamayo had treated his wounds after his previous battle but remains injured, wondering if he can win in his condition. He notes being in constant pain since the battle and it was exacerbated when he met Zenitsu and pulled him off the woman, and now, his additional lack of balance threatens to get him sliced by Kyogai's attack. He thinks back to Sakonji's advice, who told him that Water Breathing is extremely versatile having ten forms. Though he realizes he can still fight, he tries to find his spirit to continue and thinks back to Zenitsu's whining that "a broken Tanjiro won't do!", annoying him.
Steeling his resolve, Tanjiro prepares to face Kyogai head-on, taking a stance before the demon and motivating himself to fight.
Tanjiro struggling against Kyogai's waves of attacks.
Despite his injured state, Tanjiro tries to motivate himself to continue fighting. Nonetheless, Kyogai's attacks continue to nearly kill him at every moment, forcing him to think of a strategy. As he beats his drums, the demon remembers when someone had admonished his writing for being poorly written, criticizing his work and claiming he should give up. Insulting him for never going outside and always playing indoors, they step on Kyogai's sheet music while walking away. Angered and hiding that he was a demon, Kyogai unleashes his slashes and cuts the man to pieces.
After recalling this memory, Kyogai is furious and increasing his tempo faster than ever. Tanjiro has trouble dodging all of his attacks and notices the number of slashes had increased to five per attack. The movement of the room causes some of Kyogai's writings to fall on the ground which Tanjiro notices, but he avoids stepping on them which surprises Kyogai.
Tanjiro uses Ninth Form: Splashing Water Flow, Turbulent.
The Demon Slayer sees that short breathes allows him to gain strength without injuring himself and begins to smell a mold-like scent before incoming attacks, making more fluid and calculated movements as he uses Water Breathing, Ninth Form: Splashing Water Flow, Turbulent to decrease the distance between the two. He detects the Opening Thread: right before he decapitates Kyogai, Tanjiro tells him his Blood Demon Art is amazing, before finally striking the demon.
A cat arrives to collect Kyogai's blood.
Tanjiro accidentally breathes heavily after defeating the demon, hurting him greatly, but he continues telling himself that he is the eldest son and must pull through somehow. Kyogai's disintegrating head asks him if he really thought his Blood Demon Art was good, and Tanjiro reassures that he did, though he adds that he cannot be forgiven for killing humans. He then takes out a syringe-like knife developed by Yushiro and extracts the blood from Kyogai's body, giving it to a cat wearing a talisman for Tamayo's research. Kyogai's head, as he disintegrates to ash, cries about how Tanjiro saw the value in both his writing and drumming, at peace that someone had admired them.
While making his way through the corridor, Tanjiro opens the door to where he left Teruko and Kiyoshi and is greeted by a mass of objects thrown at him. The siblings apologize; they mentioned how they were scared since the drum had disappeared and didn't have a way to defend themselves in case of an attack. The trio make their way out of the house, but just as they make it to the entrance, Tanjiro smells blood. He runs out to see a crying Shoichi as the masked Demon Slayer beats a wounded Zenitsu, crouching over Nezuko's box after he stated it was more important than his life.
Zenitsu lies unconscious on the ground as he remarks about his sharp sense of hearing: he is even capable of hearing the conversations of other people while asleep, causing people to consider him creepy. He notes that Kyogai's sound has disappeared, meaning he had been defeated by Tanjiro and that the latter was making his way back outside. Shoichi appears above Zenitsu and with tears in his eyes, explains how they made it out of the house through falling out of a window, thanking him for making sure he remained unharmed. Zenitsu discovers blood on the back of his head and panics, but is interrupted by the boar headed swordsman smashing his way out of the house.
The assailant attacking Zenitsu.
Zenitsu remembers and reveals the swordsman as the fifth Final Selection survivor, the fastest individual to make it up and down Mount Fujikasane before the other survivors. The swordsman sees Nezuko's box and senses a demon, running to attack it only to be cut off by Zenitsu, who defends the item that Tanjiro stated was more important than his own life. When the stranger informs him of what is inside, he admits that he knew there was a demon inside ever since he met Tanjiro, but didn't question it as Tanjiro had such a pure sound coming from him that made Zenitsu deem him trustworthy. All his life, his hearing has enabled him to detect the sounds of a living thing and in turn, helped him determine their character. Being lied to and deceived all his life, he has determined that Tanjior has a good reason for keeping a demon as a Demon Slayer.
He refuses to let the assailant harm the box without first figuring out what its contents were from Tanjiro himself. The boar-masked Demon Slayer acknowledges Zenitsu's courage and begins to beat him up, just as Tanjiro arrives with Kiyoshi and Teruko. The former expresses great shock at the sight, as the way Zenitsu defended the box reminded him of how Nezuko tried to protect Rokuta during their family's massacre. Before the assailant can harm him and Nezuko even further, Tanjiro lunges at him and lands a hard punch on his ribs, breaking them. He lectures the assailant on how Zenitsu wouldn't reciprocate his attacks as it was against the code of conduct for Demon Slayers to attack each other.
The assailant's face is revealed.
The assailant decides to instead duel with his bare hands rather than with his blades, while Tanjiro desperately tries to talk it out. He notices how the assailant's attacks are very close to the ground, similar to fighting a beast. He also tries to attack lower, but the assailant dodges and hits him using his extreme flexibility, laughing and showing off his flexibility by bending backwards and putting his face between his legs. Tanjiro tries to advise him not to do so since his bones were broken, but the assailant ignores him. Angered the stranger is never acknowledge future consequences, Tanjiro headbutt his attacker to calm him down. The assailant staggers backwards and his mask falls off, revealing a rather feminine face. The stranger asks if they take issue with his appearance.
Inosuke falls unconscious
Tanjiro and Zenitsu note the drastic contrast between the unknown Demon Slayer's face and muscular physique. The former states he has no issue with his face and does not want to attack further, but the stranger demands he headbutt him again to his liking. He declares his names is Inosuke Hashibira, though when Tanjiro asks for how it is spelled, Inosuke does not know. Suddenly, he faints and falls over backwards from the impact with Tanjiro's forehead. Though Zenitsu becomes worried he is dead, Tanjiro surmises it is because he suffered a concussion from receiving a strong headbutt, with Zenitsu noting that his head is not even bruised.
Inosuke wakes up some time later and loudly jumps up wanting to fight, scaring Zenitsu. He catches sight of the group and Tanjiro explains they’re burying the dead, requesting for Inosuke to help out. He is unenthusiastic about the work and demands he fight him instead. Somewhat dismayed, Tanjiro humorously provokes him by replying that he had probably felt too much pain to aid in such an exhausting task, telling him to rest and leave the burden to the more capable people. An enraged Inosuke takes on the challenge, quickening the pace of the burial.
As they descend the mountain, Zenitsu tries to force Shoichi to come with him, believing him to be strong and capable enough to protect him. Tanjiro pushes him off the reluctant child and reprimands him while his Kasugai Crow gives Kiyoshi an small bag containing wisteria, meant to prevent any other attacks from demons hungry for his marechi. The Demon Slayers bid farewell to the trio of siblings and continue with their mission.
As Tanjiro's crow leads the trio, Tanjiro strikes up a conversation with Inosuke and asks about his past growing up on a mountain. The latter reveals his lack of a direct family and explains his only enjoyment involves battles over strength, describing how he encountered and fought Demon Slayers who entered Mount Fujikasane that later told him about demons and Final Selection, which eventually led to him attending it despite not receiving instruction from a cultivator. When he claims he will defeat Tanjiro, the latter tries to properly introduce himself as "Tanjiro Kamado" which Inosuke butchers into "Gonpachiro Kamaboko".
The trio are welcomed to the wisteria-crested house.
As night falls, the three Demon Slayers find themselves before a house with a Wisteria crest painted on its door, with the Kasugai crow telling them they can rest. An old lady comes out and greets the trio, leading them into the house. Inosuke is immediately rude to her, poking her hair. Tanjiro’s crow explains how the house is run by a family who was protected from an attack by the Demon Slayers. Since then, they have provided food and shelter in their home for Demon Slayers without need for payment, identified by the Wisteria crest on their houses.
Zenitsu becomes enraged with Tanjiro.
A doctor is summoned to assess the trio's injuries and he notes that all of them have broken ribs. Later as the three eat, Tanjiro and Zenitsu are disgusted by Inosuke's lack of manners; he then tries to irritate Tanjiro by taking from his bowl but is unsuccessful when he is met by his kindness instead. As they prepare to rest, Zenitsu takes the time to ask Tanjiro on why he carries a demon. Stunned by Zenitsu knowing, he calls him a good person. Somewhat flattered, he hears as Tanjiro notes how he smelled good and strong, though Zenitsu still takes issue with Tanjiro forcing him to leave Shoichi.
Suddenly, Nezuko's box in the corner begins to move, frightening Zenitsu into hysterics. As the door open, Zenitsu panics even further and begs for protection. Nezuko exits and stands up, causing Zenitsu to become speechless at seeing her appearance. Tanjiro tries to introduce her as his sister but Zenitsu instead admonishes him for carrying a cute girl with him throughout all the suffering he had been forced to endure. He yells that the Demon Slayers is not something joined and taken lightly and attempts to punish Tanjiro.
